Over the past 30 years, McDonald's has witnessed China's brilliant achievements one after another, and the huge consumption potential of the Chinese market has also provided McDonald's with unique development opportunities.

On October 8, 1990, McDonald's officially entered the mainland China market and opened its first mainland China restaurant (now McDonald's Shenzhen Guanghua Restaurant) in Dongmen Pedestrian Street, Luohu District, Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province.

McDonald's is committed to providing every Chinese customer with delicious, safe, high-quality food, and continues to innovate its menu. Currently, Mainland China is McDonald's second-largest market in the world, its fastest-growing market, and the world's largest franchise market outside the United States. As of September 2022, there were nearly 5,000 McDonald's restaurants in Mainland China, serving more than 1 billion customers and employing more than 180,000 people each year.
McDonald’s in China – history
The early years of McDonald’s in China
The first McDonald’s opened in Taipei in 1984, while the first restaurant in mainland China opened in 1990. Three years later, KFC opened its first restaurant in Beijing.
The first McDonald’s in mainland China opened in Shenzhen, in the southern part of the country. As the first Special Economic Zone in China was established in 1980, newly implemented liberal reforms allowed Western brands to open stores in China. McDonald’s was one of them. Two years later, the second McDonald’s restaurant in mainland China opened in Beijing and was, at that time, the largest McDonald’s restaurant in the world. On its opening day, a thousand workers served over forty thousand customers.
By 1996, McDonald’s had opened twenty-nine restaurants in Beijing alone.
McDonald’s growth in China
When McDonald’s made their first debut in the Chinese market, its target audience was middle-class Chinese citizens. At the beginning of the 21st century, McDonald’s began appealing more to a younger audience due to increased marketing and rising pop-cultural impact. The famous slogan “I’m loving it” has also made its way to China as – “I just like it.”
First McCafé in China was opened in 2001, and the first McDrive – in 2005. As McDonald’s popularity grew, all restaurants in China were open 24/7.
Due to its rapid expansion in the Chinese market, McDonald’s restaurants became an integral aspect of the Chinese cities’ landscape. To gain more patrons, McDonald’s started employing a new strategy in China. The brand reduced American symbolism in China and incorporated more menu options with a Chinese twist.
As of 2022, there are around 5,000 McDonald’s restaurants in China and 180 thousand employees. By 2017 McDonald’s had served over 1,3 billion customers, and now it serves 1 billion customers a year. In line with the popular statement “a small step for us, is a large step for the world”. McDonald’s in China is now focused on serving organic and sustainably grown food following the “green” trends in the world.
Western brands and Chinese mentality
McDonald’s popularity perfectly shows China’s mentality towards copyright laws. The famous golden arches logo, for example, has often been recreated by other local restaurants. It is indeed not surprising to come across a restaurant with that very same logo under the name “Mr. Mahmoud.”
This “copycat” mentality has been deeply ingrained into Chinese culture for centuries that can be seen across various Chinese products. On the one hand, it is an important aspect of Chinese culture that investors planning to expand their business in the Chinese market need to be aware of. On the other hand, this proves that a brand’s imagery plays a fundamental role in its popularity in China because the more a brand’s logo gets copied, the trendier it becomes.
When McDonald’s made its debut on the Chinese market, it was seen as a symbol of luxury and the Western world. Its image has changed since it appealed to both young and older Chinese consumers.
How does McDonald’s adapt to its Chinese consumers?
McDonald’s association with Western culture played a significant role in its success in China. Therefore, back when the brand first entered the Chinese market, the Chinese menu was not much different from those available in the US or Europe. However, the company took a couple of steps to appeal to Chinese customers and lower their cost of production.
McDonald’s restaurants in China offer several Chinese dishes, such as youtiao (油条, Chinese deep-fried dough) and cakes with taro filling (a kind of sweet potato). Additionally, green tea is not only used to make teas but also used in sweets and hamburger buns, which gives them a vivid green color.
Even the hamburger’s name in Chinese is an interesting case. When we take a look at the Chinese translation of the word hamburger (汉堡 – hànbǎo), the first character used can be translated as “China” or “Chinese,” which might imply a certain closeness to Chinese culture.
Various forms of promotion have been used to promote McDonald’s in China, including meal packaging inspired by Chinese video games. McDonald’s menu options in China also had to adapt to the availability of ingredients in the local market. Thus, since real cheese is expensive in China, Chinese hamburgers use cheese imitations resembling rubber. While the difference is unnoticeable according to Chinese customers, as they do not eat cheese on a regular basis, foreigners will be quick to spot the difference.
In 1990, McDonald’s opened its first restaurant in mainland China (in Shenzhen).
Two years later McDonald’s finally entered Beijing, and opened its (back then) largest restaurant in the world. The big golden arches (麦当劳的金色拱门màidāngláo de jīnsè gǒngmén) were seen from afar, and an inflatable Ronald McDonald (麦当劳叔叔màidāngláo shūshu) perched on the two-story restaurant, on Beijing’s main shopping street. The grand opening day in April 1992 was exceptional: more than forty thousand customers were served by nearly one thousand employees.
But two years after, McDonald’s was engaged in a land dispute against Beijing’s government. In question was McDonald’s 20-year lease and the city’s attempts to close the restaurant for a new super-sized shopping center. All the surrounding buildings were demolished, while the American restaurant was the lone building standing amid rubble. The legal battle lasted for two years, and ended when Beijing had agreed to pay McDonald’s a fee of $12.3 million. In 1996, a new outlet was opened 150 meters away from the old location, where it continues to operate today.
In 1992, McDonald’s opened its first restaurant in Beijing, China.
The new burger joint became an attraction as a place to taste not only the American food, but also the American culture. The western food, atmosphere, and style of eating attracted the locals and the domestic tourists. The company name and trademark was already known, and roused great curiosity among trendy customers. Although eating at McDonald’s was pricy, new restaurants appeared in Beijing one after another because eating there had become a social event and a culinary experience. By the end of 1996, there were 29 outlets in Beijing.
The world’s most famous arches are probably McDonald’s golden arches.
According to?the Big Mac index of 2017, the Chinese Big Mac is much cheaper in comparison to the west, and even to countries in East Asia and South America. The average price of a Big Mac in America in July 2017 was $5.30; in Venezuela $4.06; in Japan $3.36; while in China it was only $2.92. But using the local currency, McDonald’s isn’t considered such a cheap option in China, considering the fact that the average price of a Big Mac is 19.80 Yuan. But McDonald’s offers delivery, 24 hours stores, free WiFi, and its familiar services, like drive-through and happy meal?
On October 8, 1990, the first McDonald's in China opened in Shenzhen.
This McDonald's has about 460 seats in total. But on its opening day, the enormous amount of customers exceeded these numbers. Although over 400 employees had been trained, it was not enough.
As a result, more than?500 people had to be temporarily deployed from Hong Kong to help.
A hamburger costed 5 to 6 CNY, which would rise to be over 10 CNY with fries and a bottle of coke. At that time, the average monthly salary was only 400 to 500 CNY. Eating a meal that costed 10 CNY would be quite extravagant.
However, there were still many people who, with a handful of cash, bought 10 or more Big Macs in one go, exhibiting their extreme generosity.
The first weekend after McDonald's opened, the turnover reached 460,000 CNY in just one day, setting a global record.
I hear ya. I do. And that’s why you love them too. You need them, or else what other evil corporation would you take on? And that’s the point.
Everyone has a special Mickey D’s story. I remember my grandmother, an exceptional Portuguese cook, would treat us to a feast of Quarter Pounders when we were much younger after our soccer games. This would mainly happen during Monopoly week/month/whatever it was. It doesn’t really matter cause nobody would win, anyways. You’d get all the pieces except for one of each set, because of course you would. The salt and oil from the fries would smother each laminated Monopoly piece as you’d try and peel them with your grimy little fingers off the picnic bench, and it was glorious.
Anyways, this is a story about China, isn’t it?
So one day, a friend of mine recounted her story of her first McDonald’s experience to me when she was a little girl.
For those you may not know, McDonald’s has a start date. In the US, it was already there when prehistoric Asians crossed Beringia, and franchises had sprung up across the eastern seaboard by the time some pesky Pilgrims sailed the ocean blue searching for religious freedom and McRibs.?Pork was scarce in Northern Europe in the seventeenth century. (Loads of research went into retroactively citing this joke.)
In China though, fast food entered the Middle Kingdom in 1987 with the introduction of KFC. Chinese folks love chicken, and that right there is a damn understatement. Chinese love chicken like Americans love beef, which is nice for the environment and bad for chickens.
McDonald’s entered mainland China in 1990 and has forever been number two in China to KFC’s number one. This is the opposite the US, where Macdos is number one, and KFC is a garbage heap where you take emergency shits during road trips.
This is partially because of the competitive advantage of entering a market first, and also consumer tastes in China. (Have I mentioned they like chicken?)
Further, as fast food made inroads into China, it wove itself into the fabric of society. At first it was a status symbol. Do recall that China of 1987 was an improving, but certainly far from wealthy nation. Only the rich could eat at McDonald’s and it was considered a nice meal. This has occurred in?other places?that are not the US, as well, like Ghana. Status and the fact that it’s just so damn tasty. Right?
In any case, in China, McDonald’s first came to Shenzhen in 1990. Why Shenzhen? Well, as China entered its “Opening Up and Reform” 5 cities had Special Economic Zones (SEZ) where free-ish trade occurred. Two of them were Shenzhen and Zhuhai, as these were the places that bordered Hong Kong and Macau, two already (mostly) free regions.
My friend was originally from the Northeast (Dongbei, as they say) and moved/migrated to Zhuhai. Thus, Shenzhen and Zhuhai are considered migrant cities, as many aren’t actually from there. Very few people in these two cities speak Cantonese, for instance, which is the provincial mother tongue.
In any case, she lived in Zhuhai, and one day her father made the trip to Shenzhen, which isn’t particularly close if you’re driving (nor if you’re a crow). It’s across the Pearl River Delta, so you must drive all the way around or take a ferry. In any case, he went to McDonald’s there, purchased a burger for his daughter, and gave it to her hours and hours and hours later when he returned to Zhuhai.
Because this was McDonald’s in the early 1990s and it was held in such esteem, she was delighted. He carried this incredible sandwich over city lines (Chinese cities are uniquely massive…which I shall explain on another day). He carried this immaculately crafted delicacy from the east banks of the Pearl River to the west, just to satisfy his daughter’s taste buds. She finally bit into this strange creation from across the Pacific!
And it was….awful. And so there you have it. Every single person on this Earth loves McDonald’s.
McDonald’s wants to boost its presence in China from 6,000 to 10,000 stores by 2028, but faces competition from another global fast food chain with a broader footprint.

2023 marked a year of rapid growth for McDonald’s. On February 5, the globally renowned fast food chain announced its financial results for Q4 and the entirety of last year. For the fiscal year 2023, McDonald’s total revenue reached USD 25.49 billion, a 10% increase from the previous year, with net profits soaring by 37% to USD 8.468 billion. Throughout 2023, its global same-store sales also grew by 9%, with the international developmental licensee (IDL) segment, particularly in China, demonstrating the fastest growth.
Zooming in on the fourth quarter ending December 31, 2023, McDonald’s revenue was USD 6.4 billion, an 8% increase year-on-year, with net profits reaching USD 2.039 billion, approximately 7% higher than the previous year. Global same-store sales for McDonald’s also grew by 3.4% in Q4, with growth observed across all segmented markets.
China emerged as the market with the highest number of new store openings in the fast food giant’s financial reports. Over the past year, McDonald’s opened a total of 1,374 new stores in international markets, with China contributing 925 of them, accounting for 67% of the new stores.
During a conference call, Ian Borden, CFO of McDonald’s, expressed his gratitude, thanking the employees who contributed to the establishment of over 1,000 restaurants in China in 2023, which he said was a historic high. Chris Kempczinski, global CEO of McDonald’s, also added that “overall, [the company] had a very good 2023 in China. We were happy with how our business performed in China. We’re seeing strong growth there. We also built a thousand restaurants in China, so we’re very much on track from our development aspirations and we would expect to do something similar in 2024 from that standpoint. [We] feel good about what we’re seeing in China and the progress and growth.”
Despite the flourishing Chinese market, the majority of profits on McDonald’s global income statement are not contributed by the Chinese market, given the nature of international franchising partnerships. However, the situation is shifting as McDonald’s globally doubles down on China, initiating accelerated growth.
Doubling down on the Chinese market
With the topic of foreign businesses withdrawing from China currently top of mind, McDonald’s has interestingly demonstrated its willingness to continue committing to China, taking concrete actions to invest in the domestic market and the world’s second-largest economy.
In November 2023, McDonald’s agreed to acquire the minority stake of Carlyle Group in its China business, increasing its stake in the local business from 20% to 48%, with Citic Capital’s consortium holding the remaining 52%. According to Kempczinski, this transaction was completed in January this year.
Investing in China not only reflects the confidence of the American company in the country’s growth trajectory but also brings practical benefits. For instance, venturing into the Chinese market has facilitated the development of localization expertise. An exemplary case is the “McSpicy” chicken burger, specifically designed for the Chinese market in response to the local preference for chicken drumsticks and spicy cuisine. According to a “fun facts” series released by McDonald’s in 2020, it was reported that an average of six of these burgers were sold per second. Some of such products also get exported globally to other markets upon further validation.
In addition, China’s localized supply chain can provide McDonald’s with more significant cost advantages, enabling deeper cooperation with local Chinese companies in the future. Currently, over 90% of the ingredients and toys utilized by McDonald’s in China are procured and produced locally, with the data and IT teams in the Chinese market fully localized.
Zhang Jiayin, CEO of McDonald’s in China, said in a media interview that “the stake increase in Golden Arches (the officially registered name of McDonald’s in China) not only reflects confidence in the domestic market’s potential to spur revenue growth but also the cost advantages of manufacturing in China, as well as the ability of Chinese operations to export innovative ideas and practices globally.”
Since McDonald’s announced an increase in its stake in Chinese operations, the target of reaching 10,000 stores in China has been repeatedly mentioned. In December last year, the company shared during an investor event that it plans to expand its global store count to 50,000 by the end of 2027, with restaurant numbers in the Chinese market anticipated to increase from 6,000 to 10,000. Kempczinski said that China could ultimately become the largest target market for McDonald’s, ahead of the US.
Rivalry with KFC in China
Compared to McDonald’s, KFC, another well-known international fast food chain, has already achieved its goal of establishing 10,000 stores. In December last year, KFC opened its 10,000th store at Wulin Square in Hangzhou, becoming the first foreign fast food chain to achieve the milestone in China.
KFC’s ability to reach the goal of opening 10,000 stores ahead of McDonald’s is largely due to its more thorough localization and expansion strategy.
Before Western brands began promoting “Chinese-style hamburgers,” KFC was largely the brand most active in adjusting its offerings to match Chinese tastes. From its “Old Beijing” chicken roll to preserved egg and lean meat congee, grilled chicken and crayfish burgers, durian-infused chicken nuggets, and more, numerous popular items on KFC’s menu in China incorporate Chinese elements.
Furthermore, KFC has a much higher frequency of new product development compared to the industry, resulting in extremely high levels of attention and customer stickiness. According to research data collated by Huachuang Securities, in 2019, KFC developed over 1,900 new dishes and introduced approximately 400 new products, with items introduced almost every day, while product launches by McDonald’s and Burger King were seemingly more improvised.
In terms of site selection, KFC’s strategy is also more focused on lower-tier cities. According to statistics from Canyan Data, McDonald’s stores are predominantly located in tier-one cities, accounting for approximately 50%, while KFC’s percentage is at 41%.
KFC is likewise more aggressive in its store opening plans. In September last year, Yum China, the owner of KFC in mainland China, revealed that it plans to increase the fast food chain’s total store count to 20,000 by 2026, far exceeding McDonald’s current goal of 10,000 stores.
It is foreseeable that as McDonald’s accelerates its penetration of the Chinese market, the two fast food giants will compete more intensely. But they won’t be the only rivals competing, with local brands quickly emerging as well. With only 500 stores in 2020, local fast food brand?Tastien?has grown its store count to nearly 7,000 in just over three years.
Considering the aggressive pace of expansion across the board, they will hope that China’s appetite for fast food will continue unabated.
KrASIA Connection features translated and adapted content that was originally published by 36Kr. This?article?was written by Yang Dian for 36Kr.
McDonald's is eyeing financial opportunity in China as economic troubles in the country?spur an appetite for cheap dining options.
The company has plans to open about 1,000?new McDonald's in China?by the end of 2024, according to?reports. The rapid expansion effort is part of its goal to have 10,000 total outlets in the country by 2028.
The company's 1,000-store objective this year would keep pace with the record-breaking growth McDonald's saw throughout China in 2023,?Bloomberg reported.
The expansion will focus on lower-tier cities in the country, accounting for almost two-thirds of new McDonald's openings across all of its international markets, according to the outlet.
The push comes amid a?growing economic crisis in China?that has seen demand surge for affordable dining options — and competition is booming.
McDonald's' most direct competitor, Yum China Holdings, the company that owns Pizza Hut and KFC in the country, is also seeking to expand, Bloomberg reported; the company already has 14,000 locations in China and seeks to increase those numbers to 20,000 over the next two years, per Bloomberg.
Even as many major brands are considering a?shift away from manufacturing in China, the country's market of 1.4 billion people is too tempting to pass up for McDonald's and other fast-food chains.?
Starbucks also recently invested $220 million in manufacturing and distribution throughout eastern China.
As a Chinese born in the late 1980s, I would put McDonald's as my favorite restaurant in childhood. McDonald's entered in China in early 1990's. At that time, there weren't many western food restaurants. Most Chinese considered McDonald's along with KFC as the symbol of western food and thought hamburgers and fries are just what people in the west eat. Meanwhile,household income were at a very low level compared to nowadays, but McDonald's set the price relatively high. With the above, McDonald's marketed itself as a high-end restaurant in China, not like normal a fast-food restaurant at all. This strategy was very effective. In those days, the emerged group of young white-colar workers went to McDonald's as a fashionable thing. A lot of people people who hadn't tried western food at all would also like to give it shot, not mentioning the children liked the taste of hamburger or fried chicken begged their parents to go to McDonald's all the time. Besides, there occurred a western world mania in the 1990s. Wealthy life stories from the western world spread in China. A lot of people especially youngsters consider all the stuff from the western world are good. McDonald's gained popularity easily. Another significant factor to say is that McDonald's made their food more adaptable to Chinese people stomach. For example, the food is less greasy with less sugar compared the ones in America. McDonald's and KFC can be considered as the most successful chain restaurants'in China.
To recap with a list:
1. Timing. McDonald's entered Chines' market when there were not many competitors and Chinese were just in a western-world mania.
2. Marketing strategy. McDonald's correctly established itself as high-end restaurant image, instead of a normal fast-food restaurant. HargenDaz ice cream has been doing the same in the past ten years and achieved a great success.
3. Food. McDonald's did not just use the same recipe in China as in America, but made the food more acceptable to Chinese.
4. Self-attractiveness. Chain-restaurant, no-server ideas etc were very new to Chinese.
P.S.
KFC is actually more successful than McDonald's in China. KFC entered China about five years earlier. But McDonald outperformed KFC in Bejing. It is an interesting fact.
China has potential 1.3 billion customers. China has urban density, embraces a large number of populous cities, ideally for McDonald's. Due to the one child policy, as children’s choice of restaurants, kids as well as their parents and grandparents are targeted. Young professionals are given a sense of middle-class status. Young couples from all social strata are constant guests at McDonald's.
Uses of standardized products and processes, self-service and self cleaning-up keep prices low, and the scale of production reduces unit costs. Globally applied, not in China particularly, but the sheer size of China matters.
McDonald's introduced high standards of public hygiene. The government once encouraged a local fast food-industry, but this did not taken off because local chains were unable to catch up with McDonald's sanitation practices.
Catering for Chinese tastes, green pea pies, rice burgers are offered. McDonald's Chinese New Year meal is another example of localization, like elsewhere in the world.
Exploring big events. McDonald's supported Beijing Olympics in many ways ,despite home criticism, also launched commercials featuring the Games. Earlier in 2002, McDonald’s launched a nationwide SMS and ringtone promotion for the 2002 World Cup Finals, when China had reached World Cup finals for the first time. It also provided free opportunities to watch the finals in Korea and Japan.
Case Study and SWOT Analysis: Ronald McDonald’s Goes to China
This study focuses on the multinational fast food giant McDonald’s Corporation, with particular attention paid to the corporation’s situation in China. Given the disparity in cultural foods between Western countries like the United States, and China, and that McDonald’s food very much reflects food preferences in the U.S., it is very interesting to see how McDonald’s works to capture China’s attention and takes hold in the Chinese market.
This case study includes: a company profile of McDonald’s; a situational analysis; a SWOT analysis that performs an investigation on internal and external circumstances of the fast food chain in China and Hong Kong; an identification of some of the problems that the chain is facing in China; possible solutions to the identified problems.
McDonald’s: Company Profile
McDonald’s Corporation was established in 1955 in the state of Illinois. The corporation franchises, operates and develops a global network of restaurants, that each sells a limited menu of value foods. McDonald’s is the most popular ‘fast food’ service retailer in the world, with more than 30,000 restaurants in over 119 countries serving approximately 50 million people every day (McDonald’s, 2005).
Popular menu options include the Quarter Pounder, Big Mac, Happy Meal, Egg McMuffin and Chicken McNuggets, as well as a large range of other menu options including fries, chicken sandwiches, salads and sundaes at reasonable prices that the majority of people can afford. The corporation is well known for its fast service and for its efforts in recent years to diversify its menu range to make their options more appealing to a larger number of customers.
McDonald’s first arrived in Hong Kong in 1975, and Beijing much later in 1992. Hong Kong operates around 200 restaurants and outlets, with over 10,000 staff employed (McDonald’s HK, 2007) and in Beijing there are over 90 outlets (CEN, 2006). McDonald’s emergence in China, despite the unique, historic culture of the country, has been something of a success story due to the country’s rapid development and the changing lifestyles and characteristics of its people.
Situational Analysis
Just like any other company on the planet, McDonald’s has its own set of strengths and weaknesses, and as far as the corporation’s operation in China is concerned, these can cause operational threats and yet at the same time lead to opportunities. Additionally there are external factors that can affect the company which need to be taken into account.
Situational analysis is a very important tool for the investigation of effective marketing strategies in business. A common method makes use of SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats) analysis. SWOT analysis aims to analyze an organization’s internal and external environment, with the purpose of understanding internal organizational strengths for taking advantage of external opportunities, and the purpose of understanding external/internal threats and weaknesses (Panagiotou, 2003, p.8).
As such, SWOT analysis is a commercial strategy and tool used for decision making purposes, which gives a company the necessary depth of analysis with which to fully understand its own internal characteristics, as well as relevant external factors such as market environment, consumers and competitors, to allow the company to enact the most suitable strategies.
SWOT Analysis: Strengths
One of the most significant strengths of McDonald’s is its incredibly strong brand identity, which effectively differentiates the company from all other fast food restaurants around the world. This is especially the case in China, because of the contrast between cuisine offered by Chinese restaurants and fast-food outlets, and the food offered by McDonald’s. The company is able to deliver interesting new products and services, including the McCafe which offers a sit-in and drive-thru cafeteria service.
A key strength of McDonald’s is the fact that it mixes a uniform product menu at every store, with localized food options to suit the tastes of the local consumer. In Shanghai and Beijing for example there are a number of spicy food options available. Just because localized food choices are available does not mean that each McDonald’s location does not retain its own classic sense of place and purpose, and indeed there are many Chinese who think that McDonald’s is there to offer something different to traditional Chinese cuisine, and to connect them with the wider globalised world (Watson, 2000).
McDonald’s has high quality customer service, and this is agreed by even China’s elite class. The general consumer agrees that McDonald’s offers safe and reliable products, a fast service, an attractive eating environment and helpful, professional and friendly staff. The corporation knows that this industry is very much a service industry, and they appreciate that the relationship between customers and staff is important. The recent “Ask Me” program is a good example showing the corporation’s efforts to push the quality of customer services. With this program, McDonald’s is able to understand what the customer wants and further improve their products and services.
Advertisement is another clear strength, and the company has consistently provided strong promotional and communication tools to gain the audience’s interest and reach out to the wider market. Such advertising, found on television, radio, newspapers, magazines and billboards, offered catchy slogans such as “Feel the Beef”.
Advertisements are bolstered in China with key endorsements, such as with the Chinese basketball player Yao Ming.
McDonald’s understands the importance of strategic placement, and is aware of the ways in which to most effectively target and service target consumers. Outlets are placed in areas of high footfall, areas that are easily accessible to the consumer and areas that have an optimum demographic. In Beijing, McDonald’s restaurants are often found in business districts, and in Hong Kong there are restaurants found in busy places such as Quarry Bay and in malls.
SWOT Analysis: Weaknesses
The price of McDonald’s is still high when compared to some other local Chinese fast-food restaurants in China. Furthermore, the price of McDonald’s is still much more than many people in China can afford; there are many working parents who must save up before they can afford to take their families to McDonalds.
A major ingredient of McDonald’s is the cooked beef patty, and according to a study by Watson (2000), the majority of Chinese adults do not like how they taste. The specialty of McDonald’s is the burger everywhere else in the world, but this specialty does not translate very well in China.
SWOT Analysis: Opportunities
China’s immense population is one of the most obvious opportunities; the country’s population is over 1.3 billion and all metrics for economic development show an increase. The country offers a prime opportunity for expansion, and more outlets could be opened with satisfactory market share.
The number of Chinese citizens with expendable incomes is increasing, and incomes are rising with a growth in the Chinese middle class. This adds to the changing lifestyles of people in China, which is changing the peoples eating habits and making them more open to Western cuisine and fast good. Opportunities will increase further as more people embrace Western culture.
With the one-child policy still in place, it is more convenient for parents to take their children to McDonald’s. This convenience is something that could be capitalized on. China has an ageing population, and this presents opportunities for products such as tea, coffee and confections, and other types of food and drink that are popularly consumed by middle-aged and elderly citizens.
SWOT Analysis: Threats
McDonald’s has enjoyed relatively few threats in recent years, and the only significant threat in China has been the other fast-food corporation KFC. However, the largest rival of McDonald’s worldwide – Burger King – entered the Chinese market in 2005 with a new restaurant in Shanghai (AP, 2005). Since the first opening there has been steady expansion, and much of this expansion puts them in direct competition with McDonald’s, and in many areas both companies are now vying for the market share. Burger King also has a very strong brand identity, and is likewise known for its innovations and ideas. McDonald’s will need to work harder to counteract the threats caused by their rival global fast-food chain.
McDonald’s is an American company that emerged from the American system, and this contrasts with China’s status as a communist country. This makes McDonald’s occasionally subject to criticisms and protests from certain factions and groups. A number of criticism have emerged regarding McDonald’ employment practices, and this added to the health problems that fast food can cause, may lead to a negative public image of the company in China.
Analysis of the Fast Food Industry in China
The modern fast food industry is highly competitive. As such, any fast food company needs to establish competitive advantage to obtain a large market share. The two fast food companies that hold the largest market share are McDonald’s and Burger King. Other fast food companies such as KFC, Pizza Hut, Wendy’s and Subway each vie for larger market shares and high profits.
The fast food industry has exploded in presence and popularity in China in recent years. The first fast food giant to enter China was KFC, and this was followed by McDonald’s. These two corporations have the highest number of outlets, though competition from other fast food companies is increasing, including companies such as Burger King, Pizza Hut, Mos Burgers (Japan), Starbucks, California Beef Noodle King and Yoshinoya. Each has their own share of the market and their own way of attracting the customer, and market share is mainly defined by food categories. Most fast food companies offer the usual options such as hamburgers and chicken, while a smaller section of the market offers Pizza, Mexican food and sandwiches. Regardless of the company or establishment, the current general trend is to serve a large variety of different foods and to cater for the many different preferences of the Chinese consumer base. Given how tough this industry is, fast food companies must think of ways to differentiate themselves to gain an edge over the competition and be clearly recognized by the market.
Indentifying Problems and Opportunities
Given the findings of this case study, McDonald’s faces the problem of how to remain competitive in this industry, and how to effectively capitalize on the numerous opportunities that present themselves. If McDonald’s are unable to capitalize on these opportunities, their competitors will do so instead.
The aforementioned weaknesses do pose a number of threats. Given the fact that many adult Chinese customers do not like the taste of McDonald’s burgers, many adult customers eat there because of the popularity of the company, the relative affordability of the food and to please their children, and not necessarily because they actually like the food. McDonald’s may face trouble if they do not address this issue and improve the taste of their burgers, by losing customers to competitors such as Burger King.
Case Study Recommendations
McDonald’s should make use of its strength of innovation to adapt itself more effectively to the needs of the Chinese market. While the company is popular and readily recognizable, offers high rates of customer service and has high rates of customer satisfaction, owns strategic locations and has an excellent promotional strategy, these strengths will be diminished if the core products of the company are not appealing enough to a wide range of customers. Its core products are burgers, so the corporation should focus its efforts on improving the quality and taste of these products, before adding new options to the menu.
McDonald’s should not simply focus on the younger generation, but also on the older generation who are on the hunt for quality, better-tasting fast foods. Given the rapid expansion of the Chinese economy and the country’s increasing position on the Human Development Index, there are more and more Chinese consumers who would be willing to pay a little bit extra for such extra quality. If McDonald’s implemented this change they would be able to keep a strong competitive advantage over the competition.
If you don't like beef, McDonald's offers plenty of non-beef options to enjoy! Here are some recommendations:
Chicken Options:
McSpicy Chicken Burger (popular in many regions, including China).
McChicken Sandwich: A classic choice.
Chicken McNuggets: Perfect for a snack or meal.
Spicy Chicken Wings: If available, great for a spicy kick.
Fish Options:
Filet-O-Fish: A soft fish fillet sandwich with tartar sauce and cheese.
Vegetarian Options (availability varies by location):
Veggie Wraps or Burgers: Many McDonald's locations offer plant-based or vegetarian options.
Salads: A lighter option, often customizable.
Fries: Classic McDonald's French fries are always a safe choice.
Breakfast Items:
Egg McMuffin (without sausage or bacon).
Hotcakes with Syrup.
Hash Browns.
Snacks & Desserts:
Apple Pie.
Taro Pie (popular in China and some Asian countries).
McFlurry or Sundaes.
If you're looking for pork options at McDonald's, here are some items you might consider:
McRib Sandwich: This seasonal favorite features a seasoned boneless pork patty dipped in tangy BBQ sauce, topped with slivered onions and pickles, all served on a toasted homestyle bun. Availability is limited, so check with your local McDonald's for current offerings. 
Breakfast Items: Many breakfast options include pork products:
Sausage McMuffin: A savory sausage patty with cheese on an English muffin.
Bacon, Egg & Cheese Biscuit: Crispy bacon with egg and cheese on a warm biscuit.
McDonald's Corporation?(NYSE:?MCD) is the world's largest chain of?fast food?restaurants, serving around 68 million customers daily in 119 countries.[1]?McDonald's?traces its origins to a 1940 restaurant in?San Bernardino, California, United States. After expanding within the United States, McDonald's became an international corporation in 1967, when it opened a location in?Richmond, British Columbia, Canada. By the end of the 1970s, McDonald's restaurants existed in five of the Earth's seven continents; an African location came in 1992 in?Casablanca, Morocco.
In order to cater to local tastes and?culinary traditions, and often in respect of particular laws or religious beliefs, McDonald's offers regionalized versions of its?menu?among and within different countries. As a result,?products?found in one country or region may not be found in McDonald's restaurants in other countries or their ingredients may differ significantly. For example, Indian McDonald's does not serve beef/pork products.
In China,?Chicken McNuggets?can come with the traditional barbecue, sweet and sour, honey and hot mustard sauces; or even a special chili garlic sauce, which is popular in China. Chinese menus also include crispy spicy chicken wings, called McWings. All chicken burgers offered in Chinese McDonald's use thigh fillet (e.g., Premium Grilled Thigh Fillet Burger, Hot and Spicy Grilled Thigh Fillet Burger), rather than breast meat, which is preferred in?western countries.[7]
Unique ice cream flavors such as Matcha Green Tea ice cream is available. Pies come in two standard flavors: pineapple or taro, although special flavors including chocolate, apple, banana, and azuki bean have also been offered on a limited basis.
There is a seasonal?Chinese New Year?meal available, including the Grilled Chicken Burger and curly fries, with a?horoscope?of the twelve zodiac animals of?Chinese astrology?and traditional?red envelopes.
McDonald's has occasionally introduced lamb-based items in select markets to cater to local tastes. For instance, in 2012, McDonald's Australia launched the "Serious Lamb Burger," featuring a lamb patty seasoned with rosemary, parsley, oregano, garlic, and onions, topped with tomato, red onion, egg, beetroot, and aioli on a wheatgerm bun. 
However, lamb offerings are not standard on McDonald's menus and are typically limited-time promotions in specific regions. As of now, McDonald's in the United States, including Los Angeles, does not offer lamb-based menu items. For the most current information, it's advisable to check with your local McDonald's or visit their official website.
Since opening its first restaurant in the?Sydney?suburb of Yagoona in 1971, McDonald's has grown to over 780 outlets employing some 85,000 people who serve more than 1 million daily customers across?Australia?today.

As nationwide sales dipped due to lower consumer confidence and increasing demand for better value for money, McDonald's is working at wining back customers. The global fast food giant is focused on offering Australians cheaper items and a greater variety of meals including putting more?lamb?on the menu after the company felt that Australians embraced the lamb burger promotion.
Most readers will agree that lamb is a Australian iconic meat, frequently appearing as chops on the barbie and roasts in the oven.

To get the combination of flavours and ingredients attuned to the taste buds of Aussies, McDonald's Australia worked with the Meat and Livestock Australia (MLA) organisation and spent over 18 months to develop and perfect the product.

The end result were "thick and juicy" patties made of 100 percent Australian lamb, combined with "egg and breadcrumbs, then seasoned with rosemary, parsley, oregano, garlic and real onions to create a mouthwatering taste". Fans of the golden arches would have been thrilled with the possibility of a new burger that might become a stayer on the perennial menu.
Although we're a nation of lamb lovers, did a McDonald's lamb burger really made sense? Did Aussies truly felt the lamb burger was worth all the calories and price? Did you really enjoy the burger?

Macca's introduced its 'Serious Lamb Burger' on 15 August 2012 in one of its biggest launches ever Down Under. The burger was for a limited time only in a test market for new menu items. If all went well,, the burger could be introduced to the US.

Sam Kekovich, a popular former AFL player, was featured in a training film explaining how to construct the new burger, beginning with a 5 inch wheatgerm bun as the base, layered with a tomato slice, 3 red onion rings, the lamb patty, an oval cooked egg, 15 millilitres of tomato ketchup, 14 grams of greens, 20 grams of aioli, a slice of beetroot and finally top with the bun crown.

It was so 'serious' that Macca's recommended using both hands to eat the burger. Available in all outlets nationwide, the burger cost a 'serious' AUD7.95 and clocked 805 calories.

I decided to pick one up for a 'serious' taste test from an outlet in?Melbourne?CBD when the crowd had abated at night. The burger arrived in a larger than usual box stamped with the glorified 'Serious Lamb Burger'.

Tearing away the seal of 'quality', I came face-to-face with a hefty bun that hinted at a messy meal. It's larger size is also reflected in the premium price.
Although the burger contained all the promised ingredients of tomato, beetroot, aioli, ketchup, egg and onion, it looked nothing like the advertised image. A closer scrutiny of the lamb burger revealed a 1 centimetre thick patty, a well cooked egg with no over-fried edges, a sparse leaf of iceberg lettuce and a large beetroot slice and tomato.

A bite of the hefty burger revealed dry, crumbly and stale-like bun over crispy greens and soft tomato and beetroot. The patty was seriously more like a slice of salty and fatty meatloaf with indistinguishable lamb flavour. It could have been any meat.
Fortunately the overall taste was pleasant and the burger was not overly wet and greasy like some burgers. The accompanying fries were limp and the staff forgot the soft drink in my meal order. If Mary was Down Under and after a "little lamb", she might just think twice.

