Question: Which part of beef is used in McDonald's beef patties? Answer: Only 100% pure beef is used, from the foreleg, belly, back and hind legs.
Question: How do you debone the fillets of Filet-O-Fish? Answer: Boning with X-ray detection
Question: What does the FSC logo mean on McDonald's paper packaging? Answer: 100 per cent of the paper used in McDonald's China is made from international forest certified virgin paper. 2020, McDonald's China will have used 100 per cent of the paper-based pelletised video packaging. 5 Use raw paper from sources certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) to support sustainable forest management.
Question: Is the internet rumour that McDonald's burgers don't go bad true? Answer: If it is dry enough, the burger may not mould or decompose even without preservatives. Fresh, tasty burgers should still be enjoyed as soon as possible.
Question: Do McDonald's chickens use hormones? Answer: McDonald's does not allow its suppliers to use hormones in the breeding process, it is illegal to use hormones oh!
Question: Why is each piece of Chicken McNugget shaped differently? Answer: The McNuggets in the shape of a boot, a ball, a bell and a bone combine to form "LOVE", isn't that great?
Question: Do McDonald's chickens use antibiotics? Answer: Chickens need antibiotics when they are sick, but McDonald's has strict requirements on the type, dosage and withdrawal period of antibiotics used by its suppliers to ensure that customers are eating safe and secure chicken.
Question: Does McDonald's run its own farm? Answer: We source from specialised farming suppliers who need to meet stringent requirements in terms of rearing environment, animal welfare and antibiotic use.
Question: Is it true that I heard that McDonald's chickens have 4 wings? Answer: No one seems to be able to do that yet - McDonald's only buys chickens with two wings!
Question: How often does McDonald's change its oil? Answer: McDonald's monitors oil quality indicators daily with specialised instruments and discards oil immediately if it exceeds the standards. In addition, we regularly maintain our equipment by filtering the oil cake daily to ensure compliance with national standards.
Question: What kind of oil does McDonald's use? Answer: 100% vegetable oil, sunflower canola oil.
Question: Why don't McDonald's peel their apples? Answer: The apples are clean and hygienic after at least two washes, sliced at low temperatures and then encapsulated.
Question: How can the skin of a McDonald's apple not change colour? Answer: Fresh apple slices are sliced and soaked in VC solution for 3-5 minutes and transported at low temperature throughout to prevent oxidative discolouration.
Question: How often should I clean my McDonald's ice cream machine? Answer: Automatic daily bus sanitisation and deep cleaning of each collar every 14 her, otherwise it cannot be switched on.
Question: McDonald's doesn't offer straws anymore? Answer: McDonald's China is launching strawless cup lids in 2020, which is expected to reduce plastic by about 400 tonnes a year.
Question: Are McDonald's eggs made on site? Answer: Yes, McDonald's uses high quality eggs, both steamed and scrambled, made on site.
Question: Why is McMuffin different from other breads? Answer: McMuffin contains wholemeal wheat flour, which is rich in fibre, while indicating a sprinkling of cornflour, while the high yeast content creates a slightly acidic flavour, and the direct fermentation method creates special holes that are fluffy and chewy.
Question: What are hash browns made of? Answer: The hash browns are made from potatoes, which are diced after being cleaned and peeled, shaped into moulds, pre-fried and frozen, and then fried on site at the restaurant.
Question: How are McDonald's pork tenderloins made? Is the pork safe? Answer: McDonald's suppliers do not practically use lean meat extract or any hormones in the pig rearing process. The slaughtering process undergoes strict inspection and quarantine to ensure compliance with relevant national food safety standards. High-quality pork is stirred and seasoned to make pork tenderloin.
Question: Where did you get the name McMuffin from? Answer: McMuffin is the English word for "McMuffin", which means "full" energy for the day after breakfast. McMuffin is an English muffin baked with wholemeal wheat flour for extra fibre.
Question: How do restaurants handle eggs before making them? Answer: High quality eggs are selected, cleaned and sterilised, their shells are coated with a "protective film" to ensure hygiene and quality, and then they are immediately put into the cold chain system, cooked and delivered to the table.
Question: Where does McDonald's fish come from? Answer: Preferred deep sea cod from sustainably fished areas of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. Folded and filleted into square fish cakes and boned using X-ray detection.
Question: Why are McDonald's steamed eggs so round? Answer: Made on-site on specialised equipment using high quality eggs, the round shape comes from a special round egg steamer.
Question: Where does McDonald's rice come from? Answer: Produced from the fertile black soil of the Sanjiang Plain in Northeast China, only seasonal rice is used once a year. Selected high-quality round-grained Japonica rice, full and round, crystal jade white, mellow flavour, full of rice fragrance.
Question: Why are McSpicy Chicken Thigh Burgers so juicy? Answer: Selected juicy white feather chicken thighs are fully marinated with special marinade, and the oil temperature and frying time are precisely controlled to ensure the outside is crispy and the inside is juicy.
Question: Why is McDonald's lettuce so fresh and crisp? Answer: Each piece of lettuce has gone through layers of control from soil, water source, seed selection and cultivation to picking, with three courses of iced water, thorough washing, and a full cold chain to ensure freshness and crispness, bringing deliciousness and peace of mind to every customer.
Question: Why are McDonald's corn cups so good? Answer: The corn is processed on the same night as it is harvested to maximise the fresh flavour and texture of the original ingredients.
Question: Why does McCafe smell so good? Answer: McCafe is made from 100% freshly ground Arakabi coffee beans. Each one undergoes two "bursts" of dehydration and three stages in the roasting process to achieve the perfect balance of taste and odour.
Question: How do you cook such a juicy beef patty? Answer: The cooking secret comes from a custom double-sided fryer that locks in the natural meat juices.
Question: How many kinds of bread does McDonald's have? Answer: Regularly served are Jumbo Bread, Chicken McMuffin Bread, Hamburger Bread, Long Corn Bread, Cross Lye Bread, English Muffin, etc. Different breads are also introduced in line with new products.
Question: Where do McDonald's apples grow? Answer: Red Fuji from the southeastern part of the Shandong Peninsula is not only sweet and crisp, but the flowers are also particularly beautiful. In early summer, the large sea of pink and white flowers is fresh and elegant, emitting a unique fragrance.
Question: What variety of potato is used in McDonald's fries? Answer: McDonald's mainly uses potato varieties such as Summer Potty, Burbank and Innovator. the cultivation cycle for potato croquettes takes at least 3 years.
Question: Why does McDonald's Coke taste better with ice? Answer: Intact ice locks in more carbon dioxide for a smoother taste!
Question: What changes have been made to the packaging of McFlurry? Answer: In 2010, McDonald's packaging was programmed from plastic cups to paper cups to reduce plastic and help the environment.
Question: How are the beef patties in a Big Mac made? Answer: Beef patties are only made with 100% pure beef without any additives, and are cooked with just a pinch of salt and black pepper to taste, bringing out the natural flavour of the beef.
Question: Are the fries cut one by one from a real potato? Answer: It was using a whole potato oh! It is cut into standard shaped gold medal fries by running the water through the mesh blade. McDonald's fries are a classic snack popular around the world. When cut, the whole potato is run under water pressure through a grid of blades to create a standard shaped Gold Medal Fry.
Question: How much salt is sprinkled on the fries? Answer: Using a special salt shaker Wine about 4 grams of salt on each basket of fries, and turn them over with a chip spatula to distribute the salt just right.
Question: Is it true that there is zero oil added to the grilled chicken sandwich? Answer: The mysterious weapon of Grilled Chicken Sandwich is the double-sided fryer! It cooks quickly and locks in the juices with no added oil!
Question: Why is the McSpicy Chicken Thigh Burger so spicy and delicious? Answer: The chilli powder, which is chosen as the main ingredient of Tian Ying Pepper, will leave your tongue tingling and the root of your tongue with a lingering aftertaste.
Question: How long does it take to make a burger at a McDonald's restaurant? Answer: The process of making a burger involves heating the bun, preparing different sauces and ingredients, and wrapping. Different burgers have different preparation times, averaging 50-90 seconds. McDonald's strives to prepare your delicious food as fast as possible.
Question: Which McDonald's products are unique to China? Answer: For the Chinese market, McDonald's has launched a series of unique products, such as McSpicy Chicken Drumstick Burger, McSpicy Chicken Wings, Barbecued Chicken Drumstick Burger, as well as Black and White Pie series products which are available for a limited period of time.
Question: Do McDonald's employees need to wash their hands before work? Answer: McDonald's has a strict hand-washing procedure, whereby staff are required to wash their hands for at least 20 seconds with antiseptic hand sanitiser to ensure that their hands are cleaned and disinfected.
Question: How does McDonald's cook its food? Answer: The "eighteen different kinds of cookery" offer you delicious flavours, from steaming, to frying without oil, to deep-frying, and so on.
Question: How was Snow White born? Answer: Snow White White Ice Cream Birth Story : My First Half Life Unique recipe of high quality milk pulp, 100% compliant with national standards, in order to beat the snow white white ice cream. Where do I transform? Extra large professional ice cream machine, high temperature bath every day automatically pasteurised, every 14 days deep cleaning of all parts otherwise it can not be turned on, parts are regularly replaced, even parts that do not touch food should be cleaned regularly. Recently 330 restaurants were subject to unannounced inspections by the Food and Drug Administration and 100 per cent passed.
Question: Why don't McDonald's paper cups leak? Answer: McDonald's hot and cold paper cups use a special food contact lamination paper that is both lightweight and resistant to beverage leakage.
Question: Is it hotter or is the coffee at McDonald's hotter? Answer: Coffee is the art of temperature. For example, McDonald's freshly brewed coffee arrives to you around 80 degrees Celsius.
Question: Is McDonald's bread baked on site? Answer: The bread is baked before you arrive at the restaurant. The secret is that the bread is baked right after you order, making it even fluffier and tastier.
Question: Doesn't McDonald's bread get squashed in transit? Answer: McDonald's bread is transported on standard bread rails, which are of a certain height to give the bread the right amount of space to avoid being crushed.
Question: Why is McDonald's lettuce so white? Answer: The colour of the leaves of nodular lettuce gradually becomes lighter from the outer layers to the inner layers.
Question: What are the ingredients in McDonald's ice cream? Answer: Ice cream is made on-site at the restaurant, where a milky syrup of dairy, water and sugar is cooled and stirred at just the right temperature and at just the right speed to make a smooth McFlurry, Sundae, cone or McNuggets!
Question: Is it really ok to eat raw vegetables in burgers? Answer: Each McDonald's Knotty Lettuce is washed in multiple low-temperature processes; giving the burger a bit more crunch and ensuring freshness and peace of mind in every bite.
Question: How many types of pies has McDonald's actually introduced in China? Answer: Since the launch of the first apple pie in mainland China in 1993, McDonald's has introduced at least 15 pies, including taro, red bean, green bean, pineapple, banana, coconut, corn, field, orange, peach, chocolate, mango and strawberry flavours. Pineapple and taro pies are currently available year-round, with new flavours introduced from time to time.
Question: Why doesn't McDonald's ketchup come in a box? Answer: The pouch is designed to be squeezed as often as you like, or you can get creative and spread it on your fries.
Question: McDonald's beef patties are extra thick, how much do they weigh? Answer: The Global Big Mac and Double Cheeseburger both have a beef patty that is 44.5 grams oh! However, the weight is slightly reduced after cooking.
