Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Come to this McDonald's to eat breakfast, just this side to do the new theme, the red colour is indeed quite joyful, has always been McDonald's fan! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Passing through Shenzhen, I came to visit the first McDonald's in Mainland China, and fulfilled my childhood wish. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: "McSpicy Chicken Wings McNuggets Meal" "Buy Golden Crispy Potato Grid and Get a Free Chinese Potato" The flavour is good, kids love to eat it, and the surrounding toys are quite good. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The, Sleeping on the Side McMuffin Crispy Chicken Thigh Burger returns, crispy on the outside and tender on the inside. The milky pies are also back, full of milky flavour. The aunty sleeps next to the restaurant at night, which is heartbreaking, and it's hard on the aunty to provide a place for them to rest. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: This restaurant is good value for money. The shop was not very crowded. The waiters were super nice. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's at the East Gate in Shenzhen is the first shop opened in China by the M Records. Than I'm still big even in my perception has been a tourist attraction classic existence McDonald's door forever ah I impression is a bit funny quite affable McDonald's uncle in my daughter's eyes is scary hahaha and now do not feel much to see or also will not be big on the roof of either in some shops or outside the door of the East Gate shop after a refurbishment of the first floor have children to play with! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's is no stranger to produce although nowadays there are a lot of burgers and fries McDonald's home fries definitely ranked in my heart of the top three seasoned with salt just right, the fried taste is just right ketchup is nothing special I personally prefer the plate of barbecued chicken thighs burger chunks of barbecued chicken thighs with a rectangular burger bun is a very simple collocation, but I am deeply impressed with the Coke bubbles is also very sufficient Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Location: McDonald's, not far from the underground entrance to the environment: the shop's environment is very spacious, the desktop are very clean and tidy, health is very good McDonald's meals are very fresh, out of the meal is also very fast, the clerk service is also very good, the customer is very patient! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: This McDonald's location is particularly good, the traffic is very convenient to come to the sun cloth metro station d3 exit! Wish you and little brother words attitude especially good service super enthusiastic, that is, and then there are any problems can be communicated Oh, and then the shop's that four-piece set is very recommended Oh. Well, the milk tea then this side of the words is the Sprite Coke this side of the fruit orange, and then the taste then especially good oh. Highly recommended this side of the burger, burger, delicate taste is particularly good Oh. Then the guests highly recommend this side of the Big Mac, really, beef fresh and tasty. Then the quality of this side of the no say, really come to this side must come over to eat a "McSpicy Chicken Thighs Burger Chicken Wings Meal" "fries" "McSpicy Chicken Wings McNuggets Meal" burger, and then fries ah, this side of the McNuggets ah are very tasty. [Mint] environment: gold words very big Oh, and then clean health neat, at any time to do health, and then popularity is very prosperous, the underground entrance, then one out is Oh. Then this side of a lot of activities, and then this side can come over to me to see! Cost-effective: cost-effective words, affordable price. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The ingredients used in the dish were not very fresh. Lettuce was not fresh, yellow and soft Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Long time no see, childhood memories, the country's first McDonald's, grew up in Luohu reading is also from small to large, who did not have a birthday here did not help students had a birthday, is also a very long time a gathering point, this time to come over to the East Gate is also counted as a reminiscence of the past eaten, needless to say, have not eaten to eat hahaha no problem! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Eat there often, good environment! Service is also OK! Ingredients are still good! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Yummy, yummy, yummy, good, next time come back to "McSpicy Chicken Leg Burger Chicken Wing Meal" Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The location is very good to find a large McMac, just off the underground in the East Gate can see taste: very good or the original taste, the sour sauce is also very good, bacon cheeseburger is also very good taste is very rich [mint] environment: a total of three floors but the third floor is not yet open the location of the first floor is also a lot of [service bell] service: the service is still okay, probably because it is too busy a little busy it Cost: price ratio is still okay "Mai spicy chicken leg burger wings meal" "Mai whirlwind Oreo original taste" "double deep sea cod burger" "double deep sea cod burger" "double deep sea cod burger" "Mai whirlwind Oreo original taste" "double deep sea cod burger" "double deep sea cod burger Cost-effective are still OK "McSpicy Chicken Legs Burger Chicken Wing Meal" "McSwirl Oreo Original Flavour" "Double Decker Deep Sea Cod Fish Burger" "Double Decker Cheeseburger" "Double Decker Cheeseburger" Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The delivery guy was fast, the fries were still hot but the burger was too dry and the flavour was mediocre! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: It's been a long time since I've had a burger, I was a bit hungry at night, so I came to eat Delicious food: McDonald's hamburgers are each with a unique flavour, fries are crispy and tasty, fashionable environment: the shop is decorated in a fashionable and beautiful way, which gives a feeling of youthful vitality, and the environment is tidy and comfortable, so that people can enjoy the food and feel relaxed and happy at the same time.1. Affordable prices: the shop is affordable, offering a variety of affordable packages, so that people can eat to satisfy! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I go to McDonald's every day for breakfast, the fries and egg burgers are great! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: This McDonald's is right next to the underground entrance and it's a great place to take a break Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The Eastgate shop here is a bit more crowded on weekends. I basically ate and left, it was slightly crowded. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Nice and hot. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Flavour: [mint] Ambience: [service bell] Service: value for money: Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Simple and easy, one for a late night snack and you'll feel like you're bursting at the seams! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Hit up the nation's first McDonald's, three floors, rotating staircase, lots of seating and fast food. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: "Freshly cooked fries are the best, crispy and crunchy! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Mark is said to be the first Golden Arches fun in mainland China Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The waiter is quick and courteous, and the burgers and fries are freshly made to order. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Recommended to eat m records or not to come to this 8:30 is the time when many people dining on the ground floor no position, chose the location of the small leaps a sister had to be in the customer is still eating when the stools next to the table on the table upside down and then mop the floor with a disinfectant smell of mopping and also use the bins and beware of slippery signs to block the entrance and exit to try to squeeze out of the inevitable encounter with the bins is very stomach-churning very people! Appetising! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: This shop is very large, there are three floors, if you come on weekends, there are really many people ah, but also to find a seat, the environment is general, ordered often eat the set menu, spicy chicken drumstick burger, spicy wings "McSpicy Chicken Drumstick Burger Chicken Wings Meal" "so big chicken fillet" "McSpicy Chicken Wings McLeod Chicken Meal" "double layer deep sea cod fish burger" "McSwirled Oreo Original Flavour" "McMac Crispy Juice Chicken Pipa Thighs". Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [mint] environment: also broad to weekend people a lot of "children fish fort happy paradise meal" love to order this for toys [service bell] service: as always, good attitude new wings taste is not yet poke corn a little bit not sweet enough overall is still very good McDonald's can not be topped please the family close their eyes rushed to aspire to eat all of the McDonald's "McDonald's Oreo original flavour" Gouda "McMac crunchy juice chicken pipa legs" Gouda Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Chicken wings are black as hell, you have to ask if you want to buy them to eat when you do a bit of cooking Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [mint] environment: the environment is good, as the mainland's first stationed McDonald's, location advantage is simply not too superior, the restaurant environment midway through the traces of upgrading and transformation, more spacious than the previous appeared to be some ~ [service bell] service: the service is quite good, after all, is also regarded as the flagship shop, the service to be bad, it is too sorry for the majority of customers friends ~ Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: After all, it's the first McDonald's, so you can stop by and get a card when you're in Eastgate. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Tried two new products today: the watermelon popcorn wheat swirl was okay! Thin skinned caramelised V-wings, the wings were tasty [kudos] but the drumsticks were not so good, a bit dry Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Does McDonald's need any more recommendations? First class, if you don't know what to eat, go with McDonald's. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Super love ice-cream the whole family love to eat fries with coke ice-cream! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The first Mai Mai in the Mainland, but there's nothing special about it! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Originally we are a very loving watermelon flavour people, today can not wait to taste this watermelon flavour McWhirl, just get your hands on the watermelon also feel the fragrance of watermelon overflowing, the results of a mouth a large share of plastic flavour came to the surface, a little watermelon flavour are not! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: More affordable! The burgers are still the same! My favourite is the McDonald's "hash browns" and I can't seem to find any that are as good. For those who don't know, McDonald's coffee is refillable and the servers are very helpful! If you don't like the sauce on your burger, you can ask the waiter to remove it for you. This is a very good point! [mint] Environment: the environment is always clean and hygienic [service bell] Service: the service at McDonald's is always top notch! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The food comes out quickly, suitable for working people, and the flavours are OK and fresh! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The first time we came to McDonald's Eastgate, we got off at the Laojie underground station and hit the first McDonald's shop in China, and it was crowded! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: First McDonald's ~ walked for ages just to come and have a look! It was really super crowded! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Bull ringing big shop, the first McDonald's in mainland China, the first time to Shenzhen to hurry over to shop, eaten several times, the shop is big enough, corporate culture is also doing very well. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The service attitude is super bad, ask ten sentences do not return a sentence, love to ignore, as if other people owe her millions of like, we all respect each other, can not do this line do not do, really, the first time to experience such a McDonald's! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [mint] environment: the night and then engage in cleaning work, or very focused on health [service bell] service: bought ten wings want to replace the chicken wings in, because in other restaurants have tried is allowed to replace the other restaurants and I said 100 per cent satisfaction with customer demand, this restaurant a red card female manager and I said is supporting good not allowed to replace, I really smile face, not all chain shops? How do you this is you join the ah huh! Later a male manager surnamed Sun communicated, the result is allowed to this request! That please ask! You McDonald's is not a standardised service? Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The last two months came to Shenzhen 2 times, each time came to the mainland Shenzhen's first McDonald's, McSpicy Chicken Legs burgers McSpicy Chicken Wings are all wrapped in powder, really miss it. So come to Shenzhen to see this shop or wrapped in powder, very excited now most of the city most of the shops have cancelled this link, burger flat small especially difficult to eat. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I've never had such bad hot wings at M Kee, this is the first time, it's so bad, the texture is like re-fried, the skin is super oily, the meat of the chicken wings is very much like marinated special or even bad texture, salty, spicy and delicious, it's really disappointing! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's ** out of the group purchase coupons, and then group a go get ice cream, simply put me gas laugh, group two ice cream waitress asked if you want a spoon, I said to ah, and then she said if you want to spoon to charge, I'm really very speechless ha, when to eat ice cream spoon but also charges, spoon is not ice cream standard, like you drink milk tea does not give people the straw to say that to charge the same, is not it funny? The ice cream is also sweet and cloying. It's not as good as the ice cream at Honey Snow Ice City. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Mobile phone notification meal is ready, the results I went to take 5 minutes to wait for this is not a joke, and the attitude of the staff is not good, hard to say that the guests of the problem, the management of the management in the side also do not speak, really 6 key to the back of my 5-8 meal number is good, the staff called He Zhi what came to the conclusion that the super bad attitude, this attitude to do what the service industry it Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: 10 for 10 McNuggets is a pretty good deal. [Service Bell] Service: the food was served very quickly, and I got my meal in a while. [mint] environment: the environment is okay, is the air conditioning seems to be broken like, not cool. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Very much like McDonald's, never get tired of eating, six pairs of code words who is not a baby and free ice cream, super happy! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Waiting for half a day to hit such an ice-cream untrained can you not be on the job first. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The McDonald's in Eastgate is so different from the one I came here 10 years ago. The decoration is different. I didn't have paypal, but the customer service took the initiative to help me order and pay by cash, very friendly. I didn't have breakfast, so I ordered a Big Mac with chicken wings and a cup of ice-cream. It was too much. But all stuffed into the belly, so satisfied. 60 yuan people. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Finally came to the legendary East Gate Old Street McDonald's, it is said that this is the origin of McMac, that is, the first McDonald's in mainland China, as McDonald's enthusiasts, came here to the Holy Land tour, or very proud and excited, the McDonald's official play terrier ability is also very strong, staircase mirrors of the golden arches of the Grand Hotel to attract a lot of people to come over to take pictures! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Hitting the McDonald's on Dongmen Street first hahahahaha quite a lot of places to sit not bad Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Taste: don't worry about McDonald's produce! Tasty! Location: in the South China Sea Centre on the ground floor right in the sun cloth underground exit is very convenient once out of the underground to see the [mint] environment: the overall health can also be very clean there will be no dirty dirty place [service bell] service: the front desk sister is very enthusiastic staff are also very friendly will not not take no notice! Kudos! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: "French fries" "so big chicken fillet" "McMuffin bucket" taste general, chicken legs in the middle of the feeling are not cooked, fries to me on the seem to have been fried for a long time, not crispy, and dipping sauce only hot and sour flavour, and even chili powder cumin powder these are not, the overall feeling is not as good as the Wallace good, suggest that it really improve it, it is getting worse and worse! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Opposite the Sun Plaza, the recent 10 yuan set meal, I have to say that the fish fillet package is so small, the more it becomes smaller and smaller, the environment can be, clean, the 2nd floor of a lot of people, the third floor is relatively empty, basically have a position, okay, occasionally eat, hurry up and not as good as before, but will also have the occasional event when to eat a little bit. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: As a veteran McDonald's disciple, this review pales in comparison. Just love the McDonald's Chicken Leg Burger. Nothing to boast hard about. Just hope to avoid the malpractice of changing labels and dates on the Henan side of the m-record, and to be responsible to the consumers and to the Chinese market. The recent Sea Salt Cheese McSwirl is also tasty and not too sweet! Novel taste Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: My favourite place to go in the middle of the night is MJ, there are fewer people and it's a bit quieter and more comfortable. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: It's hard to do business these days ~ Old Mac is doing special offers everywhere ah! ** often brush to ... ... and reviews of many pre-sale packages are also very good deals! I like to order in a certain treasure, both preferential and convenient from childhood to the old wheat taste has not changed, the only regret is that the previous particularly delicious "General Burger" as well as breakfast only "hot cakes" are off the shelves are not sold! ...Anyone who has eaten them knows they are delicious! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The ambient temperature of the Eastgate shop is comfortable and clean, while some shops may have hygiene issues. -Service: The service is good, enthusiastic and proactive, and will take the initiative to ask for the order, which makes for a good experience. -Meals: McDonald's classic dishes such as burgers, fries, McNuggets and McSpicy Wings are loved by some consumers, but some are less satisfied with the taste and quality of the meals. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: It's been a while since I've been to Dongmen Pedestrian Street, I came over to find my girlfriend to play on the 1st of May today, and in order to wait for her, I came to McDonald's first, and I forgot to take photos of it after I ate it. "Dark Night Black Pepper Chicken Thigh Burger" is a chicken thigh burger with delicious chicken thighs. "McSpicy Chicken Thigh Burger Chicken Wings Meal" chicken wings are delicious "McSpicy Chicken Wings McNuggets Meal" set meal is good, flavourful, and there are a lot of people. [Mint] Environment: Clean and hygienic. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Happy m note! It's right out of the metro entrance, so it's very convenient. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I love to eat this freshly made soft ice-cream and will try it every time Mai Mai or Uncle Ken comes out with a new product. Soft and smooth texture, matcha sweetness, not false taste. If you can split the write-off is good, after all, not often can find a ride, one person at a time to eat two and too much, I hope the platform can be improved in the future. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The service is average, but his products are consistently good every time The fries are basically crispy right out of the pan, and the chicken thighs are crispy and delicious! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I'm a pretty spicy person, and this burger was spicy for me, but it was good. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Crossing the street to deliver food are still cold brother begged not to be done in advance to send can I also work in McDonald's other shops are not your shop like this really want to eat a takeaway at night so difficult to do it [service bell] service: the phone is not answered directly to you to send I do not understand what this operation to send it over in addition to the burger there is still the residual temperature of the french fries are soft to the direct loss of the Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: It is near exit D3 of Sai Bu metro station, which is convenient for traffic and travelling. The shop is large, with a variety of dishes, fast food, and self-service ordering. The environment is elegant, clean and hygienic, and the service is enthusiastic. Recommended Dishes "Angus Beef Pineapple Burger" "Mai Mai Crispy Chicken (Pipa Leg)" "Chestnut Flavoured Soya Bean Milk" "Protect Me Crystal Special" "Lime Siren Drink" Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Good service, asked the front desk for an extra packet of tomato juice and warm water, they immediately provided it, but the staff is really too short of manpower, the shop staff is busy to the fullest! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Very tasty, with recent additions and a great ambience! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Early in the morning at East Gate, there are not many food markets to choose from. The first McDonald's in China at East Gate is a good choice. There are two floors, but you have to walk up the stairs, which is not very suitable for people with mobility problems. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Why is it that they don't always give you ketchup with your fries? Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The overall taste is still maintained well, often also has a lot of discounts, or quite recommended. The location of the shop is also good, the clerk can also regularly clean up the rubbish left by the previous guests, the overall health is okay. The most recommended spicy chicken wings, the taste is still very good. Recently the new bamboo shoots with the rolls can also be, is a little spicy Oh, can not eat spicy may not be suitable for Oh! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I like to go to McDonald's to talk about things. There's seating, and it's easy to eat. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: We eat every day McDonald's health is also too worrying, actually ate the hair in the roll, the waiter also said blindly with open eyes that is not hair, this health and service really let a person have nothing to say! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Took the kids to eat it, felt good, just like that! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [Mint] environment:McDonald's coupon as always support the mass offer direct microsoft convenient, the environment so many people can also keep a short time to clean up clean! Very good! [service bell] service: love United service station speed, accurate, if you can keep hot is good, more love to eat fresh rolled bread! Offer time would be better if it could be kept for a fortnight! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Giving a bad review because the second one was half price. How come it's 21? This question does not make sense at all. That's why I gave it a bad review. 13 for one? The second one is also 20.5, why charge 21? Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The McDonald's at Luohu East Gate has opened with a new look after being re-upgraded and refurbished! The new shop design is simple and stylish, creating a cosy and pleasant dining environment. With the addition of the New Year's Dragon element, McDonald's offers the same delicious burgers, fries and other classics, as well as more new flavours and combinations for diners to try. Whether it's a fast-paced weekday or a leisurely weekend, this is a great place to relax and enjoy a good meal. Come to McDonald's Luohu East Gate when you have the chance to experience the newly upgraded dining experience! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The first McDonald's restaurant in China opened on 8 October 1990 on Dongmen Commercial Walking Street in Luohu District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province. The restaurant, now known as McDonald's Shenzhen Guanghua Restaurant, set a new record on its opening day for single-store, one-day turnover and customer visits in the history of McDonald's around the world at that time. Today, McDonald's has nearly 5,000 restaurants in mainland China, serving more than 1 billion customers annually. Mainland China has become McDonald's second largest market in the world, the fastest growing market in the world, and the largest franchise in the world outside of the United States. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Eastgate McDonald's is the first of its kind in China and carries the childhood memories of the post-80s. This year, in the Year of the Dragon, Eastgate McDonald's dress up is very colourful, the dragon's head is on the roof, and the dragon's tail is on the ground floor. Wearing new clothes of McDonald's, really the whole feeling is different, the day to go to the East Gate to buy things, see this dress up, but also went in to eat a meal of McDonald's, nostalgia under the childhood to this McDonald's feeling. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McSpicy Chicken Thighs are good and so are the fries McMenamins Forever! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I came over here for a visit and didn't have anything good for breakfast so I had to come to McDonald's. Although it is very crowded but this restaurant's food is also very fast. And the quality is also maintained at a certain level, so you can come to try. Breakfast is relatively cheap if you open a card. A cup of coffee and a hamburger can start a new morning. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's is really getting expensive, a breakfast is about 20 yuan, in the public saw a group buy, 13.9 three-piece set, McMuffin + drink + hash browns. The McMuffin has three choices, Crispy Chicken Steak, BBQ Chicken Legs and Cheeseburger. I chose the BBQ Chicken Leg McMuffin, it was getting really small and the chicken portion was also getting smaller. Fortunately, there is a group buy or will not go to deliberately buy a McDonald's breakfast to eat, after all, a breakfast down to 20 yuan, not as good as the previous 10 yuan breakfast activities! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: This McDonald's is really very good because this McDonald's has been open here for really, really many years, and it feels like it is probably really one of my favourite McDonald's, probably because it was the first McDonald's in China. That's right, it was opened here, and then every time I come over I feel like there's a sense of history here, and it's really location is also very much, and the floors are very high, and I'm sure everyone has come here before to make good memories, hmmm. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: This McDonald's is close to the underground and public transport is very convenient, sometimes about friends to meet here, now McDonald's is rising prices, so eat less. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [mint] environment: in the sun cloth road near the underground station, out to see, very convenient [service bell] service: afternoon people, very few suitable location, find a window side of the location and so on friends "french fries" hot tasty, cold, then do not recommend "McShanks Fish" Nuo, is the picture, the sale of the general "Big Mac" friends, did not shoot, not bad! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: It's a McDonald's that's open twenty-four hours, full of security. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Dongmen McDonald's has not only a foreign fast food, this is the oldest McDonald's in Shenzhen across the old friend KFC are withdrawn is not a little lonely. This time the Year of the Dragon decoration is really heart dragon head on the third floor dragon body climbing the building straight down the ground floor children are on the ground floor woolgathering not right, it is woolgathering up the tail of the dragon! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Got the Plain Grotto package up in the specials section, and for 4.99 you could choose two drinks, we ordered a diet coke and a cone. It's a really good deal to have a drink and a cone for $5 at McMenamins! And the food comes out fast, too, and the coke is super strong. I was tired of shopping and had one of these, and it was straight uplifting to say no more! Hopefully more will come out in the future woo hoo! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: It's in the busiest location in East Gate, which is great for a little sit down after a long day of shopping. However, there are a lot of live webcams in the neighbourhood at night, so if you don't like it too much, you might find it a bit noisy. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Often come to eat in this service has been particularly good new products are also very tasty very clean packaging any problem waiter will also be the first time to help! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The quality of the staff needs to be improved, it is intentional to tell me that disinfecting the toilets is not available during business hours, so I have to choose the business hours to disinfect them...? Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: 8. Every time you do activities, KFC is so insincere. Contrast McDonald's 88 Membership Festival and KFC various filled with drink not finish the drink is not affordable package discount. 9. said KFC a lot of shortcomings, there is an advantage is his family tart is quite delicious, than many dessert shops are delicious, but I now find a dessert shop basically reached the same level, on the long time did not go to KFC .... Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Activity to buy, a dollar order, I hope more of this activity, often eat McDonald's, freshly made is also very fragrant, the location is also better to find! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Dongmen Nanhai shop McDonald's is in the sun cloth metro entrance A out can see, next to KFC. McDonald's service is much better than before, often have pink clothes of the lady to help order food, McDonald's products are not as good as before, before a package can be eaten full, now a shrinkage. But overall it is still very good. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Shenzhen's first McDonald's, once again came to give a full of memories, the first time or my sister brought me to the price of the year I can not afford to consume, the flavour of the clip with feelings, full of happiness. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The fries were delicious, crispy and cheap and tasty! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Still very good, in the neighbourhood often go to eat, online ordering site to pick up food is also very fast, I hope that the neighbourhood can open a branch so that you do not have to walk ten minutes away to pick up food, after all, the public is still quite like the M record ~ environment is also ok toilet is also in the vicinity of the nothing to go to sit and laze around is also very good ~ relative to the KFC individuals still prefer McDonald's Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: It's a weekend and the restaurant is still quite crowded. But the food is still quite fast service attitude is also very good, a very good dining experience kudos! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Today happens to be my son's birthday invited a few good classmates to come to the South China Sea Centre McDonald's this side to eat McDonald's, Miss know my son's birthday also sent a small mini cylinder Oh! Happy, happy, happy! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's xVerdy~McDonald'sDaily ''What's better to eat hard than to eat a McDonald's'' 4+=McDonald's Unbeatable McSwirl Today m Remember ++ Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: A few days ago on the new matcha, surfing the Internet to brush, just passing by to experience, matcha wheat whirlwind at first thought the ice cream will be matcha flavour, but is dripping matcha sauce, matcha flavour is very strong, the top of the sprinkle of soy milk powder, enriched the texture of the wheat whirlwind, but in contrast I still like the classic wheat whirlwind, bells and whistles. The Matcha Pie has a soya milk sandwich but the matcha flavour is too heavy at the entrance and you don't taste the soya milk flavour, which can be controlled and neutralised better. The shop is big and spacious and the ambience is great! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: It's near the Children's Park, so you can come over and eat after skating. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The food is as delicious as ever or that flavour [mint] environment: clean and tidy [service bell] service: warmth Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: On a weekend night, there was a lineup of where to eat, and it's been a while since I've eaten at McDonald's, so I randomly found one that was closer. The "No Vegetarian Bastard Potato Lok Set" has wasabi removed and has a lighter flavour, the beef is more faggy, and the fries are good. The "Crispy Bamboo Shoots Roll" was my first time eating it, and it was pretty average. "Matcha Red Bean Pie" seems to be a new product, maybe I don't like the taste of matcha, it tastes like toothpaste. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [mint] environment: the environment is very OK, clean and comfortable [service bell] service: the service is also OK, there is what you need and the waiter said it is good food: specially for the MaiMai new matcha soya bean milk pie, but personally I do not like it very much, matcha is a little bit bitter, every mouthful does not inevitably make me think back to my life, in addition to the bitter outside a little bit of sweetness, strange, not much soya bean milk flavour, but the crunchy Hsu strips are very tasty, the I have repurchased numerous times. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's coffee is really bad. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Today on holiday nothing to do, shopping with friends do not know what to eat for dinner, see the McDonald's want to eat McDonald's, this is an old shop, has been a long time, McDonald's taste are very suitable for us young people to eat it, so nothing to do when they will often come to patronise it is worth recommending to everyone to go and eat! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The staff is warm and welcoming with smiles and look in a particularly good mood!!!! The food is quick and fast, and it's still my favourite McDonald's! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I was particularly hungry after getting off the underground this evening, and remembered that I hadn't been to McDonald's in a month, so I went to get the last set meal. Produced very quickly, could not help but mention to the lady clerk fries a little more, I did not expect the clerk's attitude is much better than before, but also patiently informed that it will be added a little more. Chicken thighs burger with a bit of pepper flavour, can go fishy, hot bite of oil sauce is very fragrant. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The attitude was ok I guess, the McSpicy Chicken Leg Burger was too spicy and the fries weren't crispy. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [mint] environment: shenzhen first oh, location is very conspicuous location, a dessert station on the ground floor, dining is on the 2nd floor, the environment can be dining place is quite big, decoration is very good! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Always love McDonald's breakfast, the voucher I bought on my phone was a great deal, and the waiter I came to the restaurant to find was very patient to teach how to use it, kudos! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Previously come to the East Gate when I really do not know that this is the first McDonald's in the mainland of China, this business trip to know these shops, of course, to hit the card ah, it is really amazing ah, I actually came to the first McDonald's. [Mint] environment: the location is very convenient, not far from the location of the underground entrance, out of the mouth can see the McDonald's signboard, very good. [Service Bell]Service:In this side of the dessert shop bought a cone, now actually still the second half price ah, feel the taste is still that way. There is a timeline of McDonald's at the entrance here, which is quite innovative. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [mint] environment: old shop, but not at all see the old feeling. This point is really convinced old wheat [service bell] service: there will be someone to guide, how to place an order. But in fact, all understand. But this enthusiasm, quite comfortable "double cheeseburger" Lao Mai's house to eat double cheeseburger and Big Mac. "Mai Mai Crispy Sauce Chicken Pipa Legs" Honestly, the chicken at Mai Mai is not as good as the chicken at Kee. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [mint] Environment: clean and tidy [service bell] Service: the waiters were all very nice. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I'm back to hit up McDonald's again! It's really nice, opened near my home and I was able to go downstairs during the week when I wanted to eat. I ordered a meal for two and it was fine. We ended up ordering two ice creams, especially delicious, especially like to eat ice cream hehehe, ice cream control hard to love! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: It's not crowded at mealtimes, so I'll just have some McDonald's for lunch. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I like this McDonald's, I can see it when I get out of Sai Poo MTR exit D. There is also a small "duplex" design, you can sit by the window to watch people come and go. The speed of food delivery is also fast ~ overall not bad. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I haven't eaten at McDonald's for a long time, but recently I was craving for a McSpicy Chicken Drumstick Burger, so I bought a set to try it out when I saw the event. The meat is smaller than before, but the flavour is still as spicy and tasty as before. The fries are also a lot less, look at each one is short and short, getting smaller and smaller, I can not help but suggest to the clerk to change the supplier... Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Mai Mai Crispy Sauce Chicken is a new generation of fried chicken delicacy that has a crispy golden skin and juicy meat with a very crunchy texture. The speciality of this fried chicken is its sauce, which gives the chicken extra flavour and spiciness, making it very addictive to eat. The McSpicy Chicken Thigh Burger is one of McDonald's classic products, and is also a special product developed for the "Chinese Stomach". This burger features juicy chicken thighs hidden under a crispy golden exterior, with refreshing lettuce and a tasty salad dressing, giving it a rich flavour that will keep you coming back for more. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Sai Bu metro station D exit is McDonald's, every day to work must order breakfast, mobile phone order to the shop to pick up, convenient and fast, really very Ness! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The front desk lady service is good, the environment is clean and hygienic, the food is fresh and tasty, and the overall feeling is good. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The weather is hot eat an ice cream to relieve the summer heat or more like, specially in their dessert station to buy, after eating it is really cool through the heart, all of a sudden cooled down a lot, the Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's is still a great deal for the price. I eat it often and usually don't have much time to cook, I love the taste of his food and especially love his fries. Affordable and tasty. Very satisfied, completely exceeded expectations, super value for money, cost-effective, very satisfied with this time. I hope the seller's business is more and more prosperous, the deliveryman also delivered very quickly, the packaging is very strong. Six-star praise, more - star is not afraid of your pride, but also hesitant friends hurry up, conscientious recommendation, really good. McDonald's environment is clean, comfortable, and the food is delicious, so that men and women like to go there occasionally to eat a meal to make the mood better. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Come over to East Gate to play, to play under the Shenzhen first McDonald's. The decoration style of Chinese and Western style, inside is quite large, with three floors. Decorated in Chinese and Western styles, it's quite big inside, with three floors. But almost all of them are full of people. Just as we got to the third floor, someone got up to leave the window seat. It's better to come early than to be early. A must-order trio at McDonald's, original cone ice cream, McSpicy chicken wings and fries. Wow wow, the ice cream is extra big for the same price, I wonder if the waitress was in a beautiful mood today and increased it for me, haha. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: "Double Cheese Burger" Double Cheese is delicious and tasty, as always, delicious, colourful and flavourful, the ingredients are also very hygienic, eat at ease and rest assured [mint] environment: the environment of this shop is very good, very clean and tidy, from the MTR station is also very close to the nearby East Gate Pedestrian Street [service bell] service: the service is also very on point. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Eastgate McDonald's environment is good, the traffic is convenient, the service attitude is very good, the hygiene situation is better, I bought a coupon does not know how to use, the clerk taught me how to use it, after using the delivery speed, enjoyable meal! "McSpicy Chicken Thigh Castle Wings Meal" tastes good, I love eating McDonald's, and will bring my family over to continue to dine at this restaurant, Oye. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: It's said to be the first McDonald's in mainland China, so you can come and check it out! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: This McDonald's is in the sun cloth underground out of the see, because often pass so buy more often. There is a period of time especially like the McDonald's, and then encountered several waitresses are refused a little more ice cream, I think a little more ice cream is not accounted for too much cost, after all, the cups are so big ... ... back again to go, the service has been improved, as far as possible, humane a little bit, I think that the shop is still very good, there is the guest's advice to rest assured! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Today today shopping all day, to the East Gate McDonald's, feel okay to come in, buy a set meal for two, was packing, the result is still sitting down to eat a little time to eat two pies, burgers to take back to the children to eat, the Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's really stands out. Right next to the Sai Poo MRT station exit. Next door to the KFC Pizza Hut are retired ****, and McDonald's is still very good existence, a little strength. Inside the staff work clothes are quite beautiful, the shirt is very obvious spirit. Also designed a small compartment, the underground underground passes by, will feel a slight vibration, the desktop is a little small, the aisle is a little narrow, the package above the United States group is very cost-effective. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [Service Bell] Service:The lady service is very good, speak so gently, the environment is also very clean and tidy. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: It's close to where I work, the group buy is a great deal, and the main thing is that it's tasty, clean and hygienic Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: "McSpicy Chicken Legs Burger Wings Meal" is very good, the service environment is also good, it is very good to find [mint] environment: very good [service bell] service: very good flavour is very good, we recommend everyone to buy one, often come to buy, very recommended! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [mint] ambience: ice cream bought at the window, [service bell] service: aunty comes out quickly Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I feel like burgers are not good anymore, the fried stuff is so dark. Not as good as Chinese burgers. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Second Half Price, favourite classic original, who's going to be my second half price? Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [Mint] Environment: not bad, in the East Gate Street side, a lot of people [Service Bell] Service: average Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [mint] environment: environment neat and clean [service bell] service: service attitude enthusiastic coke is very good, burger taste is very good, beef juice is thick, next time will come again, highly recommended Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Fast food out good attitude good product hygiene clean like this environment comfortable workers good service, food hygiene Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Yummy I even ate a little bit of vegetable leaves today after dropping off the handsome man to go to the underground suddenly walked to McDonald's hungry this set menu is simply not too cheap too cheap! A cup full of love + a good sized hamburger full of positive energy and happiness around me ~ wonderful, wonderful ~ and the shop, although large, but all around the well organised! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [mint] Environment:Clean and hygienic, much worse experience than a few years ago [service bell] Service:Polite Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The environment is very nice, then the food comes out very fast, the service is very good, the environment is very clean, the burger is very good, the attitude is very warm Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The food comes out so fast, you can pick it up as soon as you arrive, and the environment is nice and pretty clean, overall good. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The weather is hot into the roadside a Mai Mai, Eastgate near a relatively old shop, "Duplex" first floor did not go to see, the location is not much people quite a lot of self-service ordering machine is quite convenient to save time queuing. There is a double special offer drinks, ordered two cups, light matcha tea flavour can not say whether it is good to drink, but at the moment quite relief, the clerk is very nice to ask her where the washroom is! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The environment is quite nice, the food comes out nice and fast, and the service is on call. Praise. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [Mint] Environment:Good service, good quality staff. Good food control, good location location, quick takeaway, "Plate-broiled Chicken Thigh Burger Set" Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [Mint] Environment: East Gate is quite an old McDonald's, the interior decoration is not bad, connected to the KFC "plate roasted chicken thighs burger set" McDonald's must order plate roasted chicken thighs burger, tasty to the 100 years will not be shaken "McSpicy Chicken Wings McLeod Chicken Meal" 1 yuan 1 piece of chicken nuggets, happy to fly up. "Pineapple Pie" I still love apple pie, I just don't know when it will come out. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: When you come to Shenzhen, of course, you have to visit the first McDonald's in China at Dongmen Old Street, the environment is great, and the service is also very considerate. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Sai Bu underground exit A out immediately can see, recently McDonald's often have activities, especially the McWhirl buy one get one free activities, did not resist to buy. Ice-cream taste is not as good as before, eat up the feeling is not adjusted well a little water, partial sweet ... This shop has a thin waitress a little impatient, although there is no language dispute, face is not good ... Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Two days ago to go to the sun cloth A mouth road surface of this McDonald's to buy a few cups of McDonald's, has always been a very good shop, guests have the need to help as much as possible, because of the family's children especially love to eat McDonald's, so with a female clerk to say a little bit more ice-cream, which the female staff insisted on refusing to say that portion on so much, looking at the age of a very small but also the face of the embarrassment, it is really very speechless, in fact, honestly can be more how much? Even if you tell me in a good voice your difficulties, guests are generally not difficult, and asked McDonald's before if the children like special a little more is okay. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: In the sun cloth metro entrance A can be seen, crispy potato cakes have always loved to eat, especially just out of the pot, hot and crunchy is very good, do not cool, once cold even microwave heating is not good, powder powder ...... attitude of the clerk is to see the mood and individual, just met a thin female employees, this female Employee impression is very deep no matter letting help all plate face, couldn't help but say a sentence, the other side also issued a hopeless counter-guests wrong embarrassment, look very young estimated to be just graduated not long. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Delicious to quench the heat, melting too fast to eat a little too fast to keep up with the melting. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [mint] environment: in the underground station next to the location is very easy to find, the restaurant has a lot of places. [service bell] service: the restaurant's big sister is very good to talk to, I want a few more packets of ketchup also immediately give me, very satisfied! bought a roll of plate roast chicken drumstick fort, plate roast in my heart is really yyds, the most favourite food is this, I see today there is also ice-cream new products, next time to try. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [Mint] Ambience:Not that big but still clean. [Service Bell] Service:The waiter's attitude is very good "Plate-broiled Chicken Thigh Burger Set Meal" "No Vegetarian Bastard Double Layer Beef Burger Set Meal" "ice-cream" "Golden Crispy Potato Griddle Afternoon Tea Chicken Wings Combo" These are the more delicious ones that we ordered to eat at that time. There are a lot of other delicious food, we recommend you to go and try them. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [mint] environment: the environment is beautiful and natural good-looking relatively modern environmental health neat and clean hygiene tables are also a lot of location is also relatively spacious and comfortable set [service bell] service: the service to buy concessions cashier lady or patiently wait for me to get this side of the dishes: dishes diversified choice "so big chicken fillet" chicken fillet with cola perfect match gaga incense Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Next to kfc. Two unique shops near Sai Bu Road MRT station. One for burgers, one for chicken fillets, who love ha. [Mint] Environment: great environment. [Service Bell] Service: Good service. I would come here occasionally in the evening to get some chicken fillets for dinner, and "McSpicy Chicken Wings" as a late night snack. I like both shops on Sai Po Road. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Taste the new flavour of wheat spinning, Amushi yoghurt pineapple, topped with pineapple sauce, yoghurt flavoured ice cream has always been a limited edition flavour, the last time I ate it or six years ago in Shanghai, not sour, quite sweet, thought the yoghurt flavour could be a little sour hahaha. Also ate 13.9 yuan set meal, very cost-effective, pad it a bite enough to eat a double Jieshbao, beef ~! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: On a weekend afternoon, when you are tired of shopping, it is a good choice to go into McDonald's to rest your feet and have some afternoon tea. A glass of iced cola, a fried chicken wings, a beautiful afternoon. The fried chicken wings are crispy on the outside and tender on the inside, with a slightly spicy flavour, which makes them a perfect match for an iced Coke. However, probably because of the weekend crowd, the environment in the restaurant is not too good, a lot of rubbish on the ground is not disposed of, and the cleaning of the table is not too timely, which affects the appetite a bit. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Yeah! Mammon is forever on my mind! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: A large family ordered a bunch of packages, it is really absolute absolute son ~ "plate roasted chicken thighs burger set meal" not spicy classic, children like to eat "McSpicy chicken thighs burger chicken wings meal" this is my classic, very favourite McSpicy chicken thighs burger, every time is this one, how to eat are not tired "not vegetarian of the bully double layer beef burger set meal" "Taro Pie" taro pie is so fragrant and good good, good, good, good, good, good, good, dazzling! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: That is to say is a die-hard fan of McDonald's, really tasty, things are ten miles, McDonald's stuff is always just a smell to know it is McDonald's. Really not pulling on KFC, feel KFC will not have this feeling, but everyone's taste is different, so may not be able to enter my good reviews Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Cheese and bacon have eaten a la before always eat double gi (poor people real hammer ......), the first mouth Angus think so fragrant and fragrant, eat half of the old greasy. The second time I decided to go for the sauce, the texture was much better. Bacon in the lettuce than the tomato has a little presence, but the tomato sense of greasiness is stronger, it is difficult to choose to distinguish between winners and losers. If you're tired of eating Angus, you can switch to Angus. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: In the past, when I was a child, I always felt that McDonald's and KFC is not much difference, after growing up and eating more, I feel that McDonald's is really the most delicious, the fries love miserable, I think especially crispy, come to McDonald's cylinders and fries must be ordered! The appeal of the cone is that it is creamy and very flavourful. The soya milk for breakfast is also good, if not for the fact that the nearby McDonald's is far away I would have bought breakfast! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Every time I'm in Eastgate, I pass by this shop and look twice. I've been here before to shoot that burger at Angus, and the impression is still fresh in my mind. There's a lot of foot traffic here, and a lot of people go to the shop to rest when they're tired, so it's often hard to find a spot here, and those who do don't really order much hog the spot. KFC seems to be gone, hope McDonald's holds firm! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: On holiday mornings, the kids can fix a proper breakfast. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Dessert station aunty super good, buy ice-cream cone, I want to take home to eat, aunty take to me cups, but also gave me a spoon [service bell] service:.... Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [Mint] environment: grew up in Shenzhen, grew up watching McDonald's changes, grew up watching his decoration constantly changing theme update. You say he is very familiar with it, after growing up basically do not go, because he has chain shops opened to the community inside. Going to Eastgate is just a nostalgic feeling. And with the development of technology, he does not have to queue, order and find a seat to wait on the line, go get it yourself. [Service Bell] Service: There is no service for this kind of thing, just serve your own dishes and clean up and put things away yourself. "Taro Pie" seems to be the same as when I was a kid, I don't know if it's because of the sentimentality of the plot, so the small changes are not enough to make the taste too big to eat out. "Four-piece snack bucket" oops, called this purely because I do not know what to eat a single point a feeling point more than point this, some do not love to eat, forget it. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I went there on the day of Children's Day, and I got a free mini ice cream and lots of handmade paper to play with. There were too many people and the place was full. The staff was too busy. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The attitude is particularly bad, with a grumpy face and fries that aren't even crispy. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I'm back for another McDonald's. What a great deal on a plus one. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's is still very much a part of the exam. You get a breakfast with your pass. That's great. And you can exchange it for a drink. McDonald's has the best fries I've ever had. The ketchup with sugar is really good. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The location was good. Queues a bit long and seats a bit narrow. Service was a little out of touch. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Once the first McDonald's, the scenery is infinite, and now go to taste the feeling of a child before, the overall is good, the place is big enough, I heard that inside the waiters are specially trained, and the ordinary McDonald's experience is not the same, about eating national McDonald's is basically the same, there is no good to talk about, can only talk about something else. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Mammon must buy ice cream every time he passes by, this flavour is very new forget to rate! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Free coke with a $4 chicken leg to fill you up, sometimes it's really cheap Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Is McDonald's that good now? A kid's sister is so grand. It's really great. I love this atmosphere. The waiters are also very hardworking. They kept suggesting I buy their meal. But I just came in for a cone. It's so hot. The air conditioning is really freeing. I didn't want to leave. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Wow, it turns out that McDonald's origin in China is Dongmen, Shenzhen! The old street of Dongmen is already bustling enough, this McDonald's occupies two floors, a very prominent location. Outside a circle of McDonald's in the country, hehehe, finally found the domestic McDonald's registered name is the Golden Arches! Couldn't grab the Chicken Legs game machine, but there was a $10 for $10 McNuggets! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: This new Ovaltine flavour is so delicious and you can buy one get one free which is a great deal! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: East Gate old shop, came many times, breakfast burger is still quite good, is that you push the breakfast discount or 15 or 16 yuan, this point really do not have the KFC Dashenka cost-effective, people's or freshly ground coffee, your home freshly ground coffee discounted to more than 20, drink it is not much good why so expensive it, a breakfast only. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: When you don't know what to eat for breakfast, McDonald's is always the most trusted Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: East Gate this sun cloth underground station escalator out of the road surface has a McDonald's, personal recently also quite like to come over, because the shop's ladies are quite good attitude, take the initiative to help you order, the public this McDonald's volume is not very well set up, can not be screenshot, every time you have to re-open, it did not take long for the QR code is invalid again. But the potato cake is still as good as since, especially just out of the pan, hot, crunchy, very childhood memories... Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Sun cloth d3 an exit to see a very convenient environment is also quite good truly recommend do not know what to eat on the point of pork tenderloin eggs hahaha really good hash browns yyds very tasty feeling to go where can not come out of this flavour five-star praise, as always, good McDonald's fastfood, accompanied by the brand we grew up with la, the menu do not need to say more. The focus is on convenience, the flavour is engraved in the memory of the brain, too long not to eat will certainly miss the la ...... Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: As always, a good taste, the classic will always be passed on ~ also a kind of memory and sentiment. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Nice and good, old brand is trustworthy, service is as good as ever. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: My McDonald's. With the old flavour, with the old environment are the memories of childhood, the taste is just like that! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [service bell] service: the service attitude is super good very enthusiastic will take the initiative to ask to order food experience excellent yo environment and tables and chairs are very clean, the smell smells comfortable food delicious delicious are now point to do my favourite food is McDonald's burgers, especially McSpicy Chicken Thighs burger gaga delicious I every time to come to the point like to eat spicy burgers partners can come to try the quick punch! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [Mint] environment: McDonald's just walked into the experience of the environment temperature comfortable feeling, shop inside and outside the temperature difference is relatively large, or quite comfortable, come in after the service is very enthusiastic to help ordering food to introduce dishes and so on, a lot of people looking for the location, look at the table is also very hygienic and clean to be dishes to be on the table to experience what is called the top of the gourmet food world delicious, a very good dining experience. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [mint] environment: the environment is very good atmosphere is also very good Sai Bu D3 exit out is very convenient shop is also very neat food is very fresh fresh freshly made meals very fast wheat chicken yyds amenable to everyone to eat punch punch punch! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Forgot to take pics. Fries were hot, as was the burger, and the coke with steam was great! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I've been planted by McDonald's ice cream today. I haven't eaten McDonald's in 2 years [sniffles] [sniffles] and today I passed by a friend who had a craving. It's been a long time since I've played Volkswagen. The milk of the ice-cream is not as powdery as some of the Ks. The milk is smooth. And there's plenty of Oreos. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: In a beautiful mood today, four years, since '19, if that's right, end of this review, I'm about to step up to the v7 ranks, congratulations, arrange for a coffee with Aloe, who got me a lot of money back today, Ness, the shop was quite crowded on Friday, a lot of kids, and the service staff were very welcoming. Congrats on my promotion to v7 on the 2nd of April. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: After leaving the East Gate Market, I came over to McDonald's to take a break and buy a cup of coffee to refresh myself. The market around a little tired, still did not buy the right thing, looks like we need to come back twice. East Gate side of the traffic is really big, too many people, this door surrounded a bunch, do not know what to do? Seems like there is some kind of conflict, there is some kind of verbal argument there. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I really love McDonald's, McDonald's Big Mac and plate roasted chicken thighs burger yyds! Plate roasted chicken thighs burger will not feel full enough after eating, but the Big Mac is just right after eating, will not be hungry and will not be very supportive, double layer of meat, double layer of satisfaction! It's a great value for money, and it's said that the Big Mac seems to have been upgraded, but it doesn't seem to make any difference. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's breakfast yyds I love hash browns! Their hash browns are tender and crispy! The texture is super nice when you bite into it! Crispy and not too faggy! My favourite is the bacon and egg roll combo because it has hash browns in it too hahahahahaha and the ketchup is super tasty! The Pork Tenderloin McMansion Plate Burned Chicken Thigh Burger combo is also yummy dropping! Half a McDonald's breakfast card is totally not a bad deal! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: MaiMai will always be the first hehehe ~ this shop is really wonderful, and KFC Pizza Hut next to each other, but this shop's fries are almost always freshly fried, eating freshly fried fries happiness will really be bursting ~ and the service is also very fast, although there are a lot of people, but the coupon scanning code are very fast, and then a little bit of a moment on the OK and really good affordable, it is very suitable for craving for a time to have a small potatoes! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: In this McDonald's you can encounter beggars with QR codes asking you for money. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Location: sai bu road metro station d3 exit a metro exit is ah environment is very good ah very clean there is nothing to make people feel uncomfortable place as soon as you enter the door there is a pink lady "like you to come" is too warm ah McDonald's lady is super good-looking and super good to say that you want to ask for a little bit more strawberry sauce on the super super give a super super ah and the french fries are also the first deep-fried amount of! It's huge! I will definitely come back next time I pass by! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Location: I used to go to Dongmen often, and there is a McDonald's at exit D3 of Sai Bu metro station. Shop environment: the shop environment is good, not much space, but clean and tidy. There is a dessert station at the entrance, and the second piece is half price. Service Attitude: The staff is quick to serve food and try to satisfy customers' needs as much as possible. Food flavour: order a small mini paper cup to go to the shop to sit down and enjoy, taste very good, light mango sweet taste, epidemic after the situation will go again. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Because a Christmas ice cream screwed up a good day! I was there on the 15th of December at around 21:30pm! I ordered two Christmas McVortex! The clerk brought up the two ice cream emergency was previously made and then not sold has been placed in the freezer! I thought it was strange when I brought it up! The whole ice cream was flat! It can't be flat! The first spoon was stuck down, and I called the waiter and asked him if it was from the freezer! The waiter kept arguing that it wasn't! I turned around and left! I didn't want to say another word to him! McDonald's is a brand name shop that can do such a thing! I won't be able to go back to this shop for the rest of my life. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: What a unique flavour, love coriander try it! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: It was another great day when I went to McDonald's to get an ice-cream and bought a cone for the first time. Then I had the cheek to ask for a small mini cone, because I'm a cutie too, and then I got a big cone and a small one, so I was really happy. I thought they would want a small ice-cream when they were my age. But their service is really too much to my surprise, said, as long as the opening can receive a, so today mood is very pleasant today's happy, from McDonald's next time to come back! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I must praise the McDonald's food dispenser from 6am to 7am today 06 December 2022 for his positive attitude because he also went next door to buy breakfast at KFC's. The attitude was just a world away! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Now all kinds of burgers are also more and more expensive, McDonald's has been retained 1 +1 package, 12 yuan, really not bad, this Eastgate shop is in the sun cloth station underground side, pass by to buy a breakfast is very convenient, the shop is also large, the service is also good, the environment of this shop is also quite interesting, a burger a cup of milk tea, with the bar! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: "Dai Shogun Jumbo" Jumbo had been feeling worse and worse before, but now it's an updated and improved flavour! Really good meatloaf meat is much more solid, the bottom of that bread embryo is charred and crispy, the sauce has been changed to include a bit of mustard, you can really try it, it's very tasty this time the perfect return, much more advanced! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Super like McDonald's McSwirl often pass by the dessert station in front of this shop, although easy to get fat but still want to eat Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: This McDonald's in the metro line 3 sun cloth station D3 exit up to see, you can sit by the window to eat, quite pleasant, last weekend to go and attention to APP send small toys activities, but that toy is not very good, McDonald's in the burger industry is still very good, this shop is quite big health is also good, children like! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The "Crispy Doughnut &amp; Soya Milk Combo" is a great deal at Volkswagen. 2 doughnuts and soya milk is only $6, which is cheaper than the breakfast shops outside - Volkswagen should offer more of these specials. The soya milk is a bit sweet, so dieters should be careful. [Mint] Environment: There are a lot of people in the shop in the morning, and the seats are basically full, which makes it a bit noisy. The hair tree next to the coffee machine is quite nice [Service Bell]Service:The manager with the hat is very enthusiastic and has been introducing me to their coffee. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The product is fresh and tastes great, great service! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I'm so happy to have been bumped into today's limited ice cream special, this shop has been around for years, it's right outside the Sai Bu underground entrance, you can see it, I used to love to have birthday parties here. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Bought the new package, the flavour is good and recommendable [mint] environment: the environment is good [service bell] service: the service attitude is very good Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's in front of my house, every time I don't know what to eat, I just go to his house silently! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: It's okay. It's good. It's good, as always. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's has always maintained its quality. Delicious. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Late at night very hungry downstairs saw the dessert station suddenly want to eat, and then went in to order a set menu, bought a new bacon burger, soft and salty, bought a BBQ chicken legs, also bought Oreo ice cream, these products are not stepped on mine, chicken legs crispy and juicy, ice cream to relieve greasy and tasty, late at night delicious is to make people happy happy! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: "Cod Nuggets" I was curious to see this new product in the Poor Man's Set Meal, so I tried the flavour, and I think it's okay. "French fries with mustard and honey sauce" The fries may have been left for a long time and were a bit fluffy, but I was so hungry that I ate them all in one go. "Taro Pie" This pie is still very good, I always order this pie every time I come here. I feel that after M Kee was renamed as Golden Arches, they especially like to give out free coupons, sometimes for fried chicken legs, sometimes for fries, and they are never soft when doing activities, which is really nice comparing to K Kee next door, isn't it just more obvious. Sometimes Crazy Thursdays are bad, by the evening points are gone, can't afford to get it, don't get it! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: China's first McDonald's was originally opened in East Gate! I've been here since I was in junior high school, it wasn't renovated then, but now it's very high class, 3 floors in total, McDonald's new products, buy 1 get 1 free, it's really a good deal, Kolpis McSwirl is just average, it's got white chocolate inside, "Kolpis White Peach Triangle Pie", white peach triangle pie, it's very good, it's not too greasy inside, and the sorbet is also quite good, the Kolpis Special Drinks, I stepped on the wrong side of the law, it's just plain water mixed with sugar syrup, and the snow topping is the sorbet, inside, the crunchy bobble is quite good. The crust is very crispy, I really love it. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Tastes good, as usual [mint] ambience:as usual [service bell] service:good, kudos Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The recent new flavour pudding flavour is quite tasty oh heartbeat corner buy one get one free is also very affordable love Mai Mai! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Today, the gas is particularly hot, the evening, passing by here, just come in to cool off, ordered a set meal, and friends chat, I used to often come, the shop is next to the sun cloth underground entrance C1, it is very convenient, this point of time there are still a lot of people, the main lot Wang, passing by a lot of people, for me, McDonald's leisure first, eat the second! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: East Gate this photo is China's first McDonald's, probably two floors, inside a lot of tables, the environment OK, before the sea of people in particular, in addition to out of things and come over to take pictures of the card, but now quarantine love people less a lot of things is common McDonald's have, I do not know if there are some limited, but it seems that I did not see, in fact, you can be on this kind of special shops out of some of the limited food or peripheral, the feeling will be better. The feeling will be better. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Shenzhen typhoon days, outside the rain driving a long nucleic acid queue, after doing so. Into the shop found that it is still very big ah. Seems to travel to the memory of 20 years ago that time and space to eat McDonald's, that time is the University of the 1st May Day trip, but also the first May Day Golden Week holiday, back to Changsha. McDonald's gives people the feeling that despite the change in size, the taste is still pretty much the same, and the environment is pretty much the same, so maybe there's always a certain scene from history that can bring back your memories. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Play in the East Gate side, ready to go to eat hot pot, worried that the child can eat less, he himself also clamouring to eat burgers, that's just right. If I remember correctly, this seems to be the first McDonald's opened in Shenzhen, in fact, are the same, about McDonald's this kind of shop, it is really difficult to find a difference between the different branches of the place. This is a huge flow of people in the East Gate of such places, environmental health service attitude can also be guaranteed, I feel that even quite remarkable. I am very satisfied. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The service attitude is very poor, I buy two wheat whirlwind, standing at the counter for five minutes, do not give me to play, and then keep saying not so fast, I urged, and then said I came to play, that I came to play, that I stood there in the first five minutes is what to do! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [Mint] Environment: This shop has a bright and airy environment that is neat and tidy. [Service Bell] Service: A young lady came over to introduce the product when I entered, but I haven't asked for what she said yet. After all, I rushed to the Twin Burger to come "McSwirl McNuggets Combo" McNuggets sticky sweet and sour sauce tasty hash browns are thick thick potato flavour, Twin Burger two burgers a sweet and a savoury Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I haven't been to McDonald's in Dongmen Street for a long time, and it seems that the shop has been redecorated, more spacious, and the chairs are much more comfortable. "The ice-cream cones are so tasty that I would eat one when I pass by. The "plate-broiled chicken leg burger set meal" is still the classic plate-broiled chicken leg ah. 1+1 is also often ordered, it is quite affordable, is the choice of burgers is a little less. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I've got a soft spot for Chicken McMuffin. That's good. That's good. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's simply can't get tired of eating ah, I love to eat fries, love it, every time I look for concessions to buy, very cost-effective, but also need to refrain from, quite on the fire, haha ^_ ^ burger is also delicious, used to eat when I was small and packages, there are not much concessions now packages, it is really the development of the times the prices are also rising, have to keep pace with the pace of the economy to line up! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I heard that Mc had come out with another new product for June 1, and even with the sentiment that last week's Night Little Fortress was not a good experience, I was determined to head to Happy Planet. Not much to say about the repeated price increases due to price hikes in recent years. Compared to the McSpicy Chicken Leg Burger at 21r for an a la carte, the new product seems to be in line with its pricing style (but not very acceptable). It's a shame that the shop is out of any Galaxy Sparkling Water (even the lovely Minute Maid Coconut Water is gone, sadly!) And having banned the ice cream before the exams, I went for the 'Happy Planet Twin Castle Set' (with trepidation and a hunting mindset). Chocolate Castle: four words to sum it up: Holliday Pie. It's worth a try, but not recommended. The filling is really similar, the two buns are just bread flavoured () the spuds have a soft texture and I have to say kinda wonderfully tasty, as long as you don't think of him as a burger. The other bacon sausage burger was a scaled down (nostalgically) version of the burger singles in the ancient 18 year old $18 set menu in both appearance and taste, and tasted wonderful, love the mayo. The hash browns themselves tasted in line with all the hash browns I've had previously, with the whopping 2r sour plum sauce it was a novel experience. Presumably, the sour plum flavour engulfed the hash browns themselves, with the latter providing only a grainy texture. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Feeling to go to the East Gate do not know what to eat or originally want to go to the shop can not be found will want to eat m record sign conspicuous easy to find convenient and friends meet 12r set meal can be cheap and simple to solve a meal (although the price seems to have risen) the attitude of the young ladies are very enthusiastic shop is particularly large weekdays not many people feel that only have the opportunity to carefully see the third floor of the decoration is quite interesting Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's 1+1 Delight. It was basically empty during the epidemic, the double cheeseburger was a favourite, McDonald's customisation service is really awesome, a boon for social and allergy sufferers. Burgers and fries are freshly made, and the service at this restaurant is great, recommending a few must-haves: 'Bacon Angus Thickburger Set' 'Double Cheeseburger' was awesome! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Sitting by the window on a rainy day is the most pleasant, you can see people coming and going and think about life. McDonald's is the best choice when you do not know what to eat [service bell] service: staff service attitude is very good, the child likes to eat ketchup, took a few times are smiling in the face of the "with the heart with McShame Chicken Sprite" is yyds. the location of the underground entrance, the vicinity of the Maoye can be strolled! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The waitresses are all very friendly, often come to the restaurant for breakfast, they are all very nice and you can see people coming and going while you eat! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Points of view in the group coupon two heartbeat corner of the value of a time to eat two big big meet meet ... ... Coson is very fragrant ... ... soft with ice cream is simply beautiful ... ... cold cold chocolate sauce mellow sweet ... ... is a stumbling block on the road to weight loss ~ is the first time to hit the ice cream is relatively little! I have to say, I need to make more ice cream... Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [mint] environment: super easy to find oh sun cloth d1 out is the shop quite big oh favorite bay window above the location [service bell] service: service is also very good oh there are things PR sister will help I feel that this holiday ate all the McDonald's breakfast is very greasy, but McDonald's pork tenderloin egg is quite tasty big crunchy chicken fillet is also delicious ... ... but I feel that there is too much sauce can be considered Put a little less. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Really like to go for a small fries every now and then too! With a one plus one Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Save your sorrows for the past. The past is not worth mentioning. Save your happiness for yourself. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Today, after doing nucleic acid to buy McDonald's, bought a set meal with two Ovaltine wheat whirlwind, I heard a new product to try, the results I took home to eat when I ate not a moment on the diarrhoea, I thought of their own problems did not care much about the quality of the product, did not take more than 20 minutes to my sister to eat and asked me if you just ate diarrhoea after eating it, I said yes ah, she said that she was also, I could not help but product is not a bit of a problem? The validity of the period? A person may have diarrhoea is their own problem, two people eat all diarrhoea after it is strange, right, and did not eat anything else today, very do not recommend the A Huatian wheat whirlwind! Later, I found the WeChat manager, the manager's reply stressed that the product is not a problem, let me go to the hospital to check, let me check the body? I'm not sure what I mean, I don't want to blackmail anything, after all, dozens of dollars is not necessary, the real feedback is just Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Epidemic during the stop food does not stop business, Miss very good very sweet, there are a lot of concessions taste good, my personal taste think burger less a little ketchup, thought I prefer to eat, but can understand to do catering can not meet all the customers after all, it is difficult to adjust the taste of the general public said turnip greens, each love, thought I also do catering between the epidemic is really too difficult to do business, let's work together for the, Shenzhen, cheers! Cheer up! Cheer up! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: After a month, the real experience feedback of 9.9 Breakfast Card is here. The full name is "60% off Full Breakfast Card", and it can be as low as $5.4 for a set meal. But each time each id can only be used once, woolgathering is quite a number. [Mint] Environment: I mostly go to Dongmen Zhonglu shop and Dongmen shop, which are very close to each other. After placing an order, the food comes out in a few minutes, very fast. As soon as you enter the shop you can see the dense takeaway pick-up list, the epidemic to reduce the contact is quite good. Within a month, I witnessed the change from just taking a temperature - presenting the health code - sweeping the place code, really crazy by the epidemic are [service bell] service: most of the service is quite good, today there is something but not to vomit unhappy. 13 March is the last day of the breakfast card! The 13th of March is the last day for the breakfast card, and several employees of the shop are still standing at the door selling ......, which means that the card can only be used today if you buy it at 9.9, which is not a pitfall, right? I also specially went over to ask, no one cared about me ......okfine "custard egg wheat full of points combination" breakfast offers in a lot of packages can be used, custard egg is the cheapest, only 5.4 yuan, Meizi "original flavour plate barbecue chicken leg wheat full of points" original price of 15, the use of the breakfast card on the 9 yuan. The "Wake Up Latte Pork Tenderloin and Egg McMuffin Combo" was originally priced at $18, but it was $10.60 with the Breakfast Card. Because of the time span is quite large, save not many pictures, probably these three meals often eat, occasionally add a "potato pancake", two people will add a "pickled vegetables and crispy bamboo shoots chicken congee" @ "crispy fritters" and so on, cheaper than eating rice noodle eat 4 times can return to the capital of the slogan is not a falsehood, this time the punch is very satisfied! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's yyds!!!I don't want it for every meal, but I can get it 24/7 whenever I want it. There are also deals and new products every now and then, kudos! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: When I walk past a McDonald's shop, the centre of the universe is big, big enough to hold a million grievances. The centre of the universe is small, so small that a single serving of food can satisfy you and warm my heart. When you go out, you must remember to eat well~ Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: just want to eat m record fries ah but the product is more and more not good, placed for a long time ah chicken wings is very general, anyway, did not eat the sister like their pearl milk tea it ~ or go to eat gaga more fragrant, the environment is also more comfortable than here compared to this one gaga is not expensive ahahahaha ahahaha [mint] environment: rushed people do not have to choose it ~ not rushed you can choose the environment is better [service bell] service: the service is not 0 service bar Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The location is very convenient, right at the Sai Bu underground entrance D three out of the location is not particularly spacious, the 2nd step inside the location is a bit crowded. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Near the exit of the underground entrance, there is a lot of traffic, buy the new flavour at the dessert station, because three people want to eat the second half-price, and then with the passer-by sister together, hahahaha, but also quite lucky Originally, I wanted to eat the iced gourd flavour, but they said no, so I ate the matcha red bean rice cake wheat whirlwind. This matcha sweetness I think OK, not too sweet and greasy, red bean I like, rice cake sticky, add together is quite wonderful. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The plate-broiled chicken thigh burger I bought at the review was also $5. It was a bit longer than the one I bought at the shop event, and it didn't have the same expiration date as the one I bought from the official McDonald's app. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: "I went to get my Big Mac quite late and it was quite crowded. I've always had Big Macs. It's more affordable than others. [Mint] Environment: It's in a great building, and it's a big branch, so the interior is fine. The interior is fine, but the display cabinets are in need of cleaning. [Service Bell] Service: I bought it and took it with me ~ I didn't use any of the service sessions, so I won't comment on it. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The secret of McDonald's is the popular Dianping website. There is no need for any membership and card coupons, want to eat directly to the popular commentary a enough on the good. Card coupons have to buy two before the second half price, I am a person two McDonald's is to eat a throw one. My family also has no mine, simply can not do so. Wheat whirlwind with red beans is quite tasty, you can try. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: No.313 First of all, the geographic location, the ground floor of the Nanhai Centre Building on North Dongmen Road, follow the navigation is easy to find! The metro exit is out! Down to talk about the environment, the whole shop is not too big, their unified style of decoration, minimalist style of decoration and decoration. The shop is clean and very bright. They have coffee and dessert station! Then come down to talk about the service, their service is also quite good and great! Their sister has a good service attitude, strong service consciousness, a variety of preferential activities group purchase preferential membership preferential bank card preferential! Anyway, it is a variety of concessions with down super cheap! Finally said that their various, their home is a dessert house McCafe have da, so almost what new products can eat! They have been open for many years, I feel that there should be 20 years. They have been open for many years, I feel like it should be 20 years. Their products are still of their own standard! Every time I pass by, I will go and buy an ice-cream to eat! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The ultimate woolgathering, in ** group a 39.9 set meal, and in the popular commentary group 40 set meal, in addition to the points and offset 5 yuan, four people's dinner is done recently m record is very powerful ya, activities so much, can not help but chopping hands. I can't get enough of it, it's a cure for all sorts of kinks, and if you have a hard time choosing, you should have it. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: This McDonald's location to buy the East Gate is the centre, sometimes when shopping, think do not know what to eat when you will think of eating McDonald's, McSpicy chicken wings can be said to be my favourite!yyds! The shop environment is relatively large health environment is very good, shopping little sisters sometimes tired of shopping, but also sit here to order a cup of coffee, but also very comfortable! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's China's first directly-managed shops opened in Shenzhen in the nineties to today's shop has been open for more than 20 years, still a booming business, is located in China's Shenzhen's first business district - East Gate, East Gate in the hearts of every citizen of old Shenzhen has a kind of unspeakable plot, he witnessed the prosperity of the development of Shenzhen, from Luohu to Futian to today's Nanshan, but the East Gate is still not forgotten. Nanshan, but the East Gate is still not forgotten, with more than ten years ago, still people come and go, and McDonald's is that representative of a symbol ~! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The shop is easy to find, close to residential areas, quick to pick up food, friendly and welcoming staff and clean environment. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's Camellia Ice Cream is finally on sale, the coconut flavour that was released earlier was also very good and was gone at the back. I didn't really like any of the flavours that came out at the back, and this launch was great, with a coupon on the review, which was very nice. The camellia flavour is very strong and certainly great for someone like me who loves it. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: There is no dessert station nearby, eat McDonald's dessert can only run to Sai Bu to, new products, ice cream is very good, but the kosher is too sweet, eat to the end of the very greasy, but also ate other new product pie, found that the triangular pie are not good, or like taro and coconut pie. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Rainy days out is indeed very inconvenient, and friends with umbrellas shopping at a glance to see the McDonald's here, very easy to see, and then a whim to eat a and ice cream, and then bought two two people in the cold wind and rain shivering and eating ice cream, next to the little brother were stunned, and then because of the more hasty also did not finish eating! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Early to the hospital and the doctor talked to the day, prescribed some medication, passing through the East Gate, a long time have not come, remember the last time I came to work in 2000 in the Muji, I heard that the East Gate will be transformed, and then come back to see, leaving behind a generation of memories, and then in the time I used to be it opened to shoot a long queue before you buy a bowl of borscht and a burger McDonald's to drink a cup of coffee, sit down for a while... ...Times are always changing, the only thing that hasn't changed is the beautiful memories of childhood it ......... Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The first McDonald's in mainland China, rushed to this also want to go to card! When I came to Shenzhen on business, I stayed at Dongmen, and this McDonald's is the first one in mainland China. Thinking back to the time when eating McDonald's was still a luxury...so this East Gate shop is also much bigger than other McDonald's. In addition, there are also some history of McDonald's in China at the entrance, it's worth to go and have a look~! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Location grey very nice on the underground entrance a station is... afternoon tea simple and happy service is still so good, is it if the group purchase includes that 0.01 tableware is not more nice it... so at least do not have to pay more than the same amount of money! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: This Big Square Fried Chicken Casserole. It's really bad. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [Mint] Environment: I like the environment of McDonald's the most ~ not very noisy ~ except on Saturdays and Sundays when there are a lot of children ~ this can be forgiven ~ I also like to watch the children play and eat at the same time [Service Bell] Service: very professional ~ very polite ~ "Plate Roasted Chicken Thighs Burger Set Meal" used to be one of my favourite sets to eat "Taro Pie" is also a must-order "Mango Cheese McWhirlwind" is a cure for my mood at any time not to be upset ~ eating A cup of this instantly improves my mood - how can life not have ice-cream that's cold, sweet, and creamy? "Mai Mai Crispy Sauce Chicken and Spicy Legs Set Meal" One bite of the soup is sweet and crispy on the outside and it's simply too good to be true, plus it's mildly spicy - it's recommended! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: My brother is crazy about the new seasonal product, Cinnamon Brew. I wasn't expecting it at all, I thought it would be sweet and greasy. It turned out to be quite good, with the aroma of wine and a slight acidity, which neutralised the sweetness, and also had enough moisture, and the jicama was soft and refreshing to eat. I decided to go back twice more before it was removed from the shelves, so I hope it will be sold for a longer time. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's is really the love of the children, every time you go to Walmart passed by this McDonald's daughter has to go in to buy fries and ice cream to eat. The shop is clean and tidy, and the staff has a great attitude. The fries are fried just right and my daughter likes to dip them in ketchup. The McSwirl is also her favourite and she is super fond of it! I hope the merchants have more events. More discounts. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Hahahaha, ate two yuan ice cream, McDonald's concessions more and more, love love love, the clerk will not be like other businesses because it is a coupon on the difference in treatment, or the same warm and friendly, the air conditioning is also very strong, a good place to rest your feet. The only drawback is that there is no rechargeable battery to borrow, listening to the introduction that every Monday there are activities, you can come to woolgathering ah! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: There were a lot of people, I only found a spot behind the dessert station, the environment was dirty, the stools, tables and walls were all stained, I put up with it and ordered a McDonald's, I asked the clerk and said: is this the normal amount? I asked the clerk, "Is this the normal amount?" She said yes, and I asked if you were sure. She said yes, do you want to weigh it? I'm speechless. Here's a picture I haven't touched yet. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: My girlfriend and I both had diarrhoea the next day after eating it. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: In the sun cloth near the metro station, because very much like to eat McDonald's so do not say anything more, recently they are engaged in activities to eat hot pot on the way to buy a cup of Coke Mc Dazzle Cool and a friend, 5 yuan I think it is very tasty is to eat when you have to pay attention to it, Coke and ice cream will be up a layer of froth, I walked on the road not yet inserted a straw into it has begun to so insert the straw when pay attention to it is good not to overflow to make the hands of the sticky! I think it's just as good as it is sticky, and the flavour is unquestionable. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: This month's McDonald's deal is a real bargain! Punch Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Childhood memories, the first McDonald's in the Mainland, the iconic spot to meet friends in secondary school. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I went there when I saw the event. I ordered a lot. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I remember going on a Monday, just in time for an event, and it was a great deal. Inside, the second and third floors are huge and the location is wide. Next to the East Gate shopping street, eat and then go shopping is a great thing. McDonald's food is also very delicious, this time eating a mango pie, should be a new product. It was good, not too sweet. It was crunchy and delicious. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: It is said to be the first McDonald's in China and then I went to check it out, it is very spectacular when you look at it from afar, there is a sense of combination of ancient and modern, but the food is not good, it is not very fresh, after two bites, I couldn't eat any more and I haven't eaten any more. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Anyone with a first generation McDonald's bobblehead is 40 years old, I think! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Out of the new to taste the South China Sea Centre shop in the sun cloth metro station exit, encountered commuting to and from school time, it is particularly lively Guilin sour bamboo shoots flavour plate roasted chicken thighs burger, or the original taste is delicious, it is a change of a sour bamboo shoots sauce plus a few a little old sour bamboo shoots, taste is really not too with Angus and out of the new flavour, the old friends did not eat balsamic vinegar, although the beef is not really succulent, but is better than in the cost-effective, the overall good green Pepper half chicken set meal, half a chicken with a drink, may not order a lot of people, now do, wait a while, very hot, a little salty, the batter is not light enough, the beer flavour of the sparkling water in addition to the bubbles of the ice, the flavor is really a little hard to understand Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Hi, the fries were soft and still not hot. This time it sucks. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's still has a little bit of variance in their offerings, and this one is an old favourite. The burger taste is ok, not too dry like some branches. McCafe's muffin is really a life-long black, it's too hard to eat, it's the worst muffin I've ever eaten, I feel like eating a mouthful of spices, it's not as good as the one from the cake shop. And it's frozen food. It belongs to the series that I won't buy again in the future. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [mint] environment: East Gate Sai Bu underground station out straight a short way there is a McDonald's dessert station, I was winter January more than vaccination on the way home to buy [service bell] service: scanning code to order, the people are particularly large "McDonald's dessert station original flavour of the heart jelly corner" 5 yuan a not recommended is actually the middle of the bread sandwiched between the ice cream, and then drizzled with some chocolate sauce. To be honest it was really average and plain flavour and even a bit disappointing. The bread is a very poor kind of quality, the texture is not good, it is very difficult to eat, the ice cream is a cone, it is recommended to buy a cone directly is also cheaper. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Came over for breakfast with Wuju for the second time. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: McDonald's (East Gate) because of curiosity so take the underground over to see the fresh storefront is very obvious and easy to find the ground floor is a dessert station on the top two floors is a dine-in attic really great view if you do not eat a burger instead of desserts you will forget that you are sitting in a fast-food restaurant each table also has a coffee powder to make it easier to put out cigarettes a lot of people choose to buy a cup of coffee sit down and stay a few minutes of quiet and not a lot of taste in the mind Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Ooh! That's a three-point-something! Tea's on the house! [Mint] Ambience: [Service Bell] Service: Ollie gives comfort! Watching the "fries" hit the inside of my bowl, the black truffle yoyo fries are so addictive, I want to eat another 99 bags of them! Golden Rice Bowl McSwirl! Delicious! Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: When you want to eat a hamburger, the first thing that comes to mind is which restaurant? Of course is McDonald's ah, that what open FC on the sidelines ah actually McDonald's desserts are also very good ah. A while ago also came out a lot of Ovaltine related products, really love love. And the flavour is also good. But the size of the cake is a little small. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Breakfast at this McDonald's is convenient because it's right next to the entrance of the Sai Poo MRT station. They have a breakfast membership card. It's just for one month unlike a KFC's three months, so it's more convenient. Recently, they recently launched this new breakfast set of pork tenderloin and egg burger. Previously, the egg burger was an egg with a slice of cheese, but for those who can't eat cheese, it's a waste. But now, the Pork Tenderloin Egg Burger has two eggs, and it's not very oily, it's scrambled. The scrambled eggs don't seem to have any oil in them either. It's better for people who can't eat a lot of oil. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: A few days ago really by this shop service to laugh at the death of slow movement and then the service is also very poor like someone owes him a few million that way dessert house people are even more dead face dark as if in a past life owed him money like to go in and ask him for a second half-price there is no they even told me to go out of the dessert house queuing you're not the same family it's really funny to take a small child can not afford to special offers. I remember before their shop there is a big sister in the lobby of the big sister is a classic really can not afford to hire other people that big sister service and poor! It is a big sister wearing glasses, slightly fat, a little cultural quality is not! Coupled with these services they are really too disappointed greatly disappointed! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Location:The McDonald's shop is just outside Exit D3 of Sai Bu MRT station. Shop environment:The shop is not too big, but it is neat and orderly. The decoration style continues the brand's fashionable and trendy. Service attitude: the staff service attitude is very good, the collection of food plate speed, I just left the seat to go to the front desk to ask for a bag, did not think that did not finish the drink was taken away. I just left my seat to go to the front desk to ask for a bag, I did not think I had not finished my drink was taken away. I was depressed, the shop manager knew the situation and sent me a drink, worthy of praise. Taste of food:French fries are crispy on the outside and creamy on the inside, the portion is very large, and the ketchup is sweet and sour with the fries. Milk snow ice buy one get one free good deal, strong milky flavour, sweetness is not too high, just right, suitable for my taste. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: After all, the first McDonald's in the Mainland has some outdoor locations on the third floor where you can see the bustle of the East Gate. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I heard that China's first McDonald's opened in Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, Luohu District, East Gate, so old a shop of course to want to see it hahaha East Gate as we all know, East Gate is a more prosperous section, and this side of a lot of food, and a lot of wholesale clothing, cheap prices. Opposite also opened a KFC. Do not like to eat McDonald's can choose to go next door to the KFC. They are attracted by their advertisements, watching TV when there is an advert that says 39 yuan value gold bucket, meat tender, looking at the mouth, so today decisively bought a bucket, the results are too much to eat. I love taro pie, and at home McDonald's only has "pineapple pie". Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Rush to eat a breakfast, a long time have not eaten McDonald's breakfast, breakfast bread only McDonald's, or you a few mornings of the little sister, the service is enthusiastic and thoughtful, feel at home, comfortable, and now breakfast is also more a lot of concessions to eat a breakfast as long as a few dollars to go, full, hurry to go to work, casually play a card. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Every now and then when you don't know what to eat, McDonald's is the best choice... it's delicious and cheap! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: This shop in the sun cloth metro station exit, usually take the bus to turn line 3, will pass by this branch [mint] environment: simple and clean, after all, is an underground shopping mall shop, the light will be relying on the indoor lighting [service bell] service: Nice ~ breakfast package, large American + big crunchy chicken steak McMenamins 8.5 yuan two years ago, McDonald's often have a free breakfast of big crunchy chicken steak McMenamins hamburger handout, but also quite love the food! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Too much wind and disappointment, not much soy flour and very little spuds, overall average. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: A McDonald's that I've been coming to before, it's so crowded that I have to queue up every time "So Big Chicken Fillet" is very fragrant and quite a big piece. It takes 2 people to eat it, so it's not greasy. "Pineapple Pie" Personally, I think the taro pie is better than the pineapple pie, and the pineapple is a bit sour, so it's very tasty when you eat the fruit alone. "My family doesn't like Big Macs. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: It is at the exit of Sai Bu MRT station, at the junction of the crossroads. There are fabric wholesalers in the neighbourhood, and it's also close to the Children's Park. The shop has a flight of steps up to the window, before the underground was repaired is a good place to see the street. The shop is clean. Chain shops, the food is not much to say, from the post-production point of view of this shop's buns are good, have not encountered burnt edges of the situation. The price list on the wall is very detailed and lists the prices of the products I didn't realise there were coupons here, quite a bargain. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Wandering out on New Year's Eve, 11 February, and walked over here. See lots of people lining up. Waffle cone, buy one get one free. I haven't tried the chestnut flavour, so I bought it to try. In fact, McDonald's cones have always been quite disappointing, this time it is the chestnut flavour, I thought it would be a pleasant surprise, but it's really quite ordinary! The saccharin flavour is too strong! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Catch the bus in the morning to see the business to go in to eat, usually less to eat these breakfast, so go in it do not know what to eat, the waiter patiently introduced, I chose the salted egg yolk and shredded pork congee with eggs, plus yolk pie, I personally like that congee, pouring on the crunchy auxiliary ingredients, plus slippery chicken fillet, fresh and sweet flavour, early morning drink on this feel especially comfortable! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: 2021.02.1707:22 Picked up the meal to order a breakfast, to the shop to pick up the way to eat found that the order of smoked meat and eggs full of points does not have smoked meat, this situation because the shop is not in the shop is not possible to replace or other. I don't understand why there could be a mistake since I chose the meal in this way. And what happens when there is a mistake like this. Anyway, I'm not happy because I can't even eat my breakfast properly. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: A new flavour of cone is out! The chestnut flavour is so good! Open the app first to get the coupon there is also a buy one get one free! McDonald's ice creams are basically as good as the one that comes out. It's a shame that every time they do an event it's too short. Probably because of the New Year, the dessert stations were packed. It seems that everyone is very fond of McDonald's desserts. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Today's weather is very good mood is also very good, out for a walk, walked to McDonald's here environment is very good, as always, ordered the love of spicy chicken wings, the food is very fast, the staff's service attitude is also very good, the lady is also very good-looking in my need to help me in a timely manner. "McSpicy Chicken Thigh Castle Wings Meal" "McSpicy Chicken Thigh Castle Set Meal" Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Long time no eat McDonald's, grew up eating McDonald's from childhood, remember when I was a child only holidays exams well to eat, now feel that he has become a family meal, the memory of the most impressive fries, there is a special way to eat, ketchup + sugar, the taste of a very beautiful Oh! Recommended to try, and then a golden bucket it! Inside the golden bucket there are chicken wings and fries, well, full of memories! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: I think McDonald's is getting watered down. None of these twisted fries are. It's no different from regular fries, still cold adding money to get still the same thing is kinda disconcerting, and it's mixed with regular fries... Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: After 8090's, when you were a kid, eating McDonald's was such a luxury, how many times did you have to collect the first place to get a McDonald's reward? Back then, when you had a birthday treat at McDonald's, the guests were the biggest fans of the class. Wearing a birthday hat and having a birthday party at McDonald's was so envied by everyone. So, when I grew up, spending my birthday at McDonald's was both memorable and ritualistic... Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [Environment] [Service] "Plate-Broiled Chicken Legs Burger Set Meal" Their set meal is very cost-effective, the whole set meal is particularly good, too delicious, the children's favourite, the taste is very good, superb. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: This time to engage in activities, bought their family, McSpicy chicken wings buy one get one free, is sent together, not separate redemption, at first did not know hahaha, the whole ate two pairs of McSpicy chicken wings, but also quite satisfied, is a little bit tired of eating. McDonald's has events from time to time, and I'll buy them when I see which ones are going on. I hope there will be more and more special offers. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Location: Metro Line 3, Sai Bu Station, Exit d3, it's a five or six minute walk. Very close and convenient. [Mint] environment: the environment is not bad. Looks clean and tidy. [Service Bell] Service: service is very good. Will take the initiative to teach to order with the app. Very convenient. "Small fries" were hot. Very crispy and tasty. Even better with ketchup. "The Coke is still good. It's good. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: [Mint] environment: and sisters to the East Gate shopping day down super tired, ready to stop and take a break, the idea of sitting in McDonald's ah, the weekend all the way to the fast food, to relieve hunger ~ "McSpicy Chicken Thighs Burger" to choose a one-plus-one package, tender McSpicy Chicken Thighs Burger coupled with the classic black tea, warm and tasty, bread and vegetables are fresh, taste good, a strong sense of fullness, fast-food delicacy "Oreo Oreo" McWhirlwind! Original" Oreo McWhirl classic in the classic, every time you come to McDonald's must order products, even in winter is not to be missed, chocolate chips meet ice cream perfect match! It's even better after mixing! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Tried the new matcha flavour, not as good as the original! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: Almost everywhere you go can see McDonald's, can be said to want to eat to eat, but also indeed from childhood to big can not get tired of eating fast food. In McDonald's to eat things basically will not step on mine, in recent years is also constantly in the introduction of new products, especially like so big chicken fillet, spicy enough, chicken wings must also eat spicy more addictive, a mouthful of meat a mouthful of cola perfect match! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: This first floor loves it! I love it! I heard that this is the first McDonald's in Shenzhen, but I thought it would be no worse than the usual MJ. Unfortunately, when I went there, I was not allowed to sit in the open air on the first floor (at that time, there was a serious epidemic.) I had to order the McSpicy Chicken Wings, Spicy Chicken Thighs Burger, and Ice Cream Cylinder (I forgot to take a picture). Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The Big Mac set has always been my favourite, his hygiene and food safety is most reassuring! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: It's been a long time since I've had a MJ this time to try out the new products, it's really good value, a cone costs $4 and this one only costs $5. McDonald's stuff will always go with darker but the flavour is really superb oh!!!! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: It's a small world, you can meet your friends anywhere. 50% off coffee smells good. Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: The environment is not bad, sitting by the window to eat something to play with the phone is quite comfortable, the favourite food is fried chicken legs ah, crispy, crunchy, very tasty, the shop service we all understand, are like this, mainly sitting to pass the time, taro pie is also good, sweet and crunchy, small desserts, nourishing and tasty, to buy spicy chicken drumstick burger is very tasty! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: After work, I was hungry, so I went with my colleagues to get a burger, and it just so happened that McDonald's recently had a 9.9 plate of teriyaki, which was a great deal! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (East Gate) Comments: In 1990, McDonald's first Chinese restaurant opened in Shenzhen, named Guanghua Restaurant. Today this restaurant is still located in the old street of Dongmen in Luohu. On the ground in front of the McDonald's, there are several golden plaques laid out, one of which reads 1990 The first McDonald's in mainland China opened in Shenzhen. This McDonald's in Dongmen has a total of three floors, seating more than 500, the restaurant's dining environment is very spacious as a whole, and there is also a Ronald McDonald on the third floor, where many people come to take photos to commemorate the event. McDonald's restaurants can now directly scan the code to place self-service orders, but this time we had to order the hidden menu (juicy, juicy, juicy and juicy sauce) and needed to go to the manual counter to place our order. The McDonald's Big Mac Combo + Hidden Menu features shredded onions and pickles to provide crunch, a fluffy and savoury sesame seed bun, and ketchup to bring in the sweetness and sourness to keep this burger from tasting cloying. Highly recommend this chicken fillet at 9.9, it's really so good ~ love love love it! There are also plenty of places to visit around Dongmen. Dongmen Old Street is a famous shopping area in Shenzhen, a must-visit place for shopping and drinking on holidays, you can take metro line 1 or 3 to Old Street Station. By the way, there is a big Ronald McDonald on the roof of the building on the National Day, only on the National Day that 7 days oh! Area: Luohu
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: It's been a long time since I've been to Eastgate. I'm here today because I have something to do. Seeing the long-lost M still reminds me of when I was a student and used to eat at Eastgate on weekends. And then go shopping with friends. It's a place of youthful memories hahaha. I ordered a double cheeseburger. I still like this one. And the taro pie. Now they've changed to scanning the ordering process, so there's less queuing time. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: China's first McDonald's, decoration and style are high, several floors, it is worth to card, taste, the country is not all the same, anyway, I think McDonald's is not as good as KFC. The toilets are not very clean, and no one cares if the hand towel is broken inside. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: This McDonald's is very easy to find right at the exit of Sai Poo station, very visible as soon as you leave the metro station. When I went there, the staff was very busy, but it didn't affect the quality of their service. The attitude of the staff who received me is particularly good, I ordered a set menu, which has chicken wings and a what beef, burgers taste great, and then there are fries, there is also a big Coke I next time to go back to eat, I would like to go to this place! Because the attitude is very good! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: The most interesting point of this shop: and KFC a door away [mint] environment: in the renovation, inside a bit messy, not quite like the environment, good in the location is good, just in the sun cloth metro station exit, the side of the intersection, location is good. [Service Bell] Service: average, the rubbish on the table cleaned up quite slowly. Do not like. The dishes are all that way. There is nothing to say. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Location: Located in the East Gate, equivalent to the East Gate side of the bar, opposite the lemon street is also good to find it. Environment: This shop has been open for a long time, the environment is quite good. It's not that old. Produce: Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: McMac Crispy Juicy Chicken $9.90 event, plus a coupon for medium fries that I got after a previous review. Got it done in $15 This McDonald's is under renovation and there was only one self order machine and then the ordering area was crowded and a bit of a mess. There are quite a lot of seats though. Location: Sai Bu D3 Exit, 1st floor of Nanhai Centre Building, as soon as you leave the metro station you'll see it. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: China's first MJ has been with us for 30 years, and the style and decoration of the shop has changed countless times over the years in line with the development of society. During the National Day, to commemorate this special day, the shop restored all the scenes and costumes from 1990, but we were too late, and everything has gone back to the status quo. Uncle McDonald's birthday party room is still there, at least you can sit with Uncle McDonald's row hee hee hee who is not a child to hit the card is not only me a classic "Mc Spicy Chicken Thighs Castle Set Meal" is my favourite how to eat is not greasy the recent "Mc Mc Crispy Juice Chicken Pipa Legs" (highly recommended) so that I did N times repeat customers sprinkled with a good spicy powder is simply a fine piece of fat food haha haha if you are from out of town to come to shenzhen to play remember to be sure to come here to hit the card oh! Address: Shenzhen Dongmen commercial circle to reach: metro line 1 or 3, "Old Street" station to foreign travellers advice: 1. because of the East Gate Pedestrian Street of a lot of people, pay attention to their own belongings 2. McDonald's a total of three floors, the first floor dessert shop, the second and third floors of the dining area, and the first floor and McCafe, but the "first floor" is not allowed to take pictures.... Yesterday the waiter said so I also feel very surprised, may be before the card too many people, so there is a restriction.... 3. The third floor has an open-air location, now the weather is still very hot and sunny, you can sit outside in the evening to be more comfortable! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Breakfast time ~ [mint] environment: sun cloth underground station next to exit D is, the location is very easy to find, the shop is also relatively spacious and clean, 10:30 breakfast time is relatively not a huge pile of people point "ham steak wheat full points combination", with a small cup of soya bean milk, this portion of the breakfast is just right ~ the tenderness of the ham, soya bean milk mellow, the beginning of the day of the happy! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Don't know what to eat to eat McDonald's ~ occasionally not eat McDonald's will be particularly nostalgic school closed management finally unblocked, and roommates to come to the East Gate shopping to buy clothes, hungry at night to eat McDonald's, feel too long did not eat, for the first time, I think that the custard burger is so fragrant, as if there is no onion minced inside it before, love to eat onions I really think it is very tasty! Because of the afternoon tea, this evening and a cup of cola has made me very full ~ full of happiness! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: A while ago, I received a McDonald's coupon for a free taro pie with a self-service order plus there was already a $12 set menu, so I ordered a double cheese beef burger plus a taro pie equal to $12 with a double cheese beef burger plus two taro pies, which can be said to be quite a bargain after all, just buy a hamburger is also $10 double cheese beef burger material is still quite sufficient meat meat taro pie in every bite Crispy on the outside and thick taro sauce on the inside, every bite is a big satisfaction taro lovers should like it! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Late stage procrastination dragged on for 800 years before writing this review.555 The pink and tender peach pie was $8 on its own and half price for the second. The flaky crust is level as always, very flaky. The outside is a bit of a burnt yellow powder, and the flavour is not much different from the regular puff pastry of the other models. The inside of the puff pastry is indeed a nice pink colour, and the filling is peach sauce and visible peach pulp, which tastes very peachy and sweet with a hint of acidity, but overall it's still quite sweet and cloying, but it's certainly tasty. It would have been better if the packaging was pink, there was a little bit of disappointment here. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Only six bucks, six bucks a cup, with water and ice cream, what else do you need a bike for. Love the green apple flavour and this is a fizzy drink that is cool and thirst quenching. The orange flavour is much lighter. This McDonald's has been open for a long time, and the interior has been redecorated, full of children's fun. You can sit down for a drink in the summer and hang out for another three hours! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Monday Member's Day WeChat small program coupon order only five yuan can eat tender and juicy plate grilled burger it "plate grilled chicken thighs burger" although it is the price of the event but the quality has not been lowered yo may not have with the happy water to eat a little salty plate grilled chicken thighs meat texture tender if I do their own fat loss meal can also be made chicken thighs so delicious it would be good "Taro Pie" and then another Taro Pie it crunchy and sweet ~ harm really like McDonald's! Every Monday activities do not want to work on Monday can also be a happy end of the work to pick up a lot of people ah well in the orderly service out of the meal very quickly call a number in time and be sure to order in advance in the app ah do not have to wait to the shop that is to receive the feeling of not too good! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: I came to Dongmen the day before yesterday, was going to eat group-buying burger package, now the burger shop did not have bread, but unfortunately did not eat into the burger package, here casually find this McDonald's to eat some food. McDonald's outlets are many, this branch is located in Luohu District, East Gate of the South China Sea Centre Building on the ground floor, the shop door side of an underground exit, I often pass by have not gone in, this is the first time into the shop to eat, I feel that the entire shop dining environment is relatively clean. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Today's breakfast is a great satisfaction for the whole day. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: McDonald's has always been the favourite ah feel the plate roasted chicken drumstick burger super tasty, ice cream texture especially mellow, must be ordered is the McWhirlwind, every time you want to come to a ~ [mint] environment: to go to the time is the evening, not many people, the health aspects of the feeling of okay it [service bell] service: self-service pickup, the service is okay Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Today's Happy Source is brought to you by McDonald's. The Angus Burger is a favourite in the Angus range! "Double layer North American barbecue flavour Angus thick beef burger" Angus series is the favourite since Angus came out basically order it North American barbecue seems to be a new buy this to try freshly grilled beef tender and juicy thick slice of meat eaten ultra-satisfied with a layer of pickle slices and fresh lettuce meat a lot of not afraid of greasy "so big chicken fillet" crispy spicy chicken fillet thick and large fibre firm and chewy calories and what not throw the In the back of your mind [mint] environment: East Gate the location of this shop is very good in the sun cloth station exit C a place out of it is also too convenient it takeaway pick up food shelves sorted neatly Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Double bacon Angus, the portion is enough, at least 1.5 Big Mac so heavy, beef patties containing beef is obviously a lot more! The first McDonald's in Shenzhen, there are too many memories, the opening of that long queue, buy a burger is not simple. When I was a child, I could go to McDonald's to eat something is a very happy thing, then the price is relatively expensive, so many years past, McDonald's actually did not increase the price of how much, and even some things are also cheap, cost control ability is super strong, is now one of the most affordable restaurants! It has always been thought that McDonald's can sell affordable price, entirely because of the strong supply chain management, and a huge audience market, other production of the same product is likely to be twice as expensive! So overall McDonald's products are pretty good value for money! From a child to eat once in a while, to now out of work to eat several times a week, McDonald's has been a habit, life must! Usually eat special products, discount package products, today also luxury a time, ordered Angus double layer, really material, feel worth it, the portion size is very large, recommended to change the fries, with salad to eat! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Really like to eat their wheat whirlwind too, the portion is large, taste good, every time you commute to work are passing there when you want to eat, the mood is not good when immediately go to buy this to eat, simply sweet to the heart, every time you go to the party will also bring a cup, the side of the dishes into the shop during the day, less people, the night and the weekend people will be a lot of people! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: When passing by, I saw the new product and bought it by the way, the shop is more crowded, this new product is more general, chocolate crunch is too sweet, with the cone will feel more and more tired of eating! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Cheese Salted Egg Yolk Waffle Cone is good, half price for the second one. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: It's been a long time since I've been to Eastgate, but today I'm off, so I'm coming over to visit Eastgate, and as soon as I get to Eastgate, I can't wait to come to McDonald's because the address is more conspicuous, right at the entrance to the metro station, and I haven't eaten for a long time, and I think it tastes great, but I don't have my favourite shark's fins, so it's a bit of a disappointment, but I've had a lot of unheard of products that were pretty good. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Stopped by McDonald's to get out of the rain and get a double cheeseburger. Tastes good. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Limited time half price $5, McDonald's new Peach Peach flavour waffle cone, too cute, couldn't help but lick the mouth when it arrived just a bit too sweet, peach flavour is not heavy Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: GOGOGO..... Shake~Shake fries buy one get one free but now there is only one seasoning packet, may hit after a week or two and then out of other flavours it. In Hong Kong I still like two or three ditch together to eat, seaweed, honey, sichuan spicy powder together ditch this time spice seems to be the first time to see, transfer back to eat down to go spicy enough should be extra to buy more packets may be better. Therefore, the words M record is really the spirit of food in the community, equivalent to 7-11/family inside the taste! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: East Gate this side of the wheat wheat a lot, but the environment are a little bit messy, may also be a lot of people, but the meal is still very fast "Strawberry Xindi McNuggets combination of specials" shopping tired to come and snack packages are very good, tasty and can replenish the energy "so big chicken cutlet" is very big and very affordable, while hot to eat especially crispy, la spicy hot more great! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: I'm going to pack McDonald's for dinner with my brother after work tonight ~ I haven't had it in a while and I miss the Beef and Cheeseburger! It's so good, I highly recommend it! The cheese inside is also very fragrant, must be eaten while it is still hot, beef and cheese with the taste of invincible great! Dongmen this shop in the sun cloth metro station D exit straight out of the D3 exit is a la especially easy to find ~ now although the epidemic has improved a lot, are a bit lax but the shop is still quite a lot of people to pack away, dine-in people on the low side it. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: [mint] environment: the decoration is very good, the wall has colour painting, [service bell] service: service to the spot, cleaning frequency is very diligent, go when not many people, go in and order a drink to rest a little bit, originally ordered yeyeyeye popping beads models, the result is no longer available, the replacement of the coconut, the taste of the general, the coconut is still a lot of meat, the overall feeling is not bad, [service bell] service. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Tired of shopping, eat something to replenish energy here environment is not bad, the price is also relatively high "not veggie bully double layer beef burger set" this is really delicious, recommended! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Go to East Gate to get Sister Hei's fried skewers, Xiao Bao can't eat fried skewers, so I can only sell some of his favourite food. Take underground line 3 to Sai Bu station, exit D3, walk 90m, and you will see McDonald's. In this very period of time, McDonald's is still quite crowded. Little Bo doesn't like to eat burger, he only likes to eat fries and chicken fillet. The environment is okay, the service is also okay, there are more people, the product is not so fast, in the process of waiting for food, Xiaobao obediently sit on the seat and so on, and so on the fries and chicken fillet, Xiaobao all the way to walk all the way to eat, eat that called happy ah. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Turning round at Eastgate, I don't know what to eat, just Uncle Mac's! Angus series, form over substance, still no Big Mac classic. Otherwise, it's pretty straightforward! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: The earliest McDonald's 1990, 30 years now, not missing summer or you. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Big love for McDonald's, as always, the passion is on fire and the product is still delicious. I love the Pork Tenderloin Eggs. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: The location is near People's Park and I sought it out specifically because my kids love it. It just so happens that there is a 59 RMB Mother's Day set menu, even though I'm not a mother either. After using the 30 RMB catering voucher credit from Futian (Futian's vouchers are awesome and can be used in Longhua and Luohu as well), it only cost 29 RMB, which is still great. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: This super high value ice cream is really very good and friends while shopping while eating ice cream while chatting feeling is also super great to have a bite of cherry blossom ice cream, to live up to this full of cherry blossoms blooming ~ do not rush now can also be at home "cloud cherry viewing" yo sustained more than 20 degrees of the weather as if a second into the summer to look at the beautiful cherry blossoms and then a mouthful of! Cool ice cream that is not too good! The face must be beautiful and fairy! Of course it's cherry blossom ice cream! When the warm spring wind blows down a tree of cherry blossoms, holding cherry blossom ice cream under the cherry blossom tree, you can enjoy the surprise of cherry blossoms with your eyes and taste at the same time. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: McDonald's is a really good choice for breakfast. Crispy chicken is really cheap now. It's only $8 for two chickens, and the staff told me it's half-price on Mondays. One bucket. It's like a family bucket. This McDonald's is probably due to geography. Every time. It's too crowded to talk. But it's really fast. Much faster than the first McDonald's. For a few bucks, you can get a full breakfast. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: 360 degree protection. We met up with our buddies at the Golden Arches. Compare to kfc next door, the service is better. The service is better. I like kfc egg tart and orleans wings. McDonald's Chicken Leg Buns are super recommended. Now 9.9 for unlimited repurchase. I would also choose McDonald's fries. The shop is cute. Next door to kfc. It's really competitive. For food. On this critical day. I'm going to MJ. After all, it's a Fortune 500 company, so it's a safe place to eat. It'd be nice to have a cafe in the shop. After all, it's such a busy place. It's needed. And. It'd be nice if the WC wasn't too far away. And to get to the underground... Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: East Gate, this McDonald's is said to be the first in Shenzhen, a total of three floors, the decoration is very good, there is a balcony outdoor seating, it does not feel like in McDonald's, but which Western restaurant. Think of the original girlfriends also opened a cafe, but unfortunately the back does not do. Do Western-style cafes, perhaps the dream of some people, petty sentiment! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: One of the favourite McDonald's. Not far from home and often pass this way. There's a Scholastic upstairs and I sometimes bring my kids to class. From time to time, I will patronise this restaurant. Buy a few burgers, a few fried chicken set meal, like to change the Coke into milk, the shop manager staff will always meet the small request. Not far from the Children's Park. You can pack your bags and take them with you after class. And also in the East Gate. The quiet can be. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: The location is super convenient, the exit of Sai Bu metro station, also 24 hours service, the positive Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Recently saw McDonald's advertising in the cleaning and disinfection to do a particularly good job, the earliest to see ** video no-touch takeaway, is the delivery boy put the meal on the 2 metres away from the customer and then go to get it, in this period of time to McDonald's more a lot of respect. Ordered a three-person set meal, less than 400 metres away, the delivery boy even more than the scheduled time to deliver, this 9 yuan takeaway fee is really not worth it, not as good as the United States group of delivery staff. When I handed it to me, it was put directly on my hand, and I misunderstood the no-touch thing I said. I apologised for being late and said that there were too many takeaways to deliver at this time of the day so I was kept waiting, which I reluctantly accepted. But when it came to actually eating it was a bit unsatisfactory. Because the meal was left for too long, the taste was seriously affected, the chicken fillet, chicken wings, chicken rice flower ...... all not crispy, eaten no longer that crispy and fluffy feeling. As far as the normal taste is concerned, it is also a lot more spicy than before, I do not know if the taste is now improved, a few Fort children can not eat. However, now this special period, McDonald's can have such a big discount, to the customer is also quite sincere. I hope to see more improvement in the service details. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Overall very warm, how can I say, during the epidemic, we all felt unsafe, but only McDonald's gave me a feeling of very safe, although you can not dine-in, but their staff did a very good job, there is a temperature measurement at the door, the safety precautions are done very well. The sister service is also great, wearing gloves the whole time, very patient to help customers and enforce no contact. That's why it's been open during the epidemic, so that customers can buy with confidence and I can eat with confidence Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Couldn't resist McDonald's after a long time. People are much less than daily, but the service attitude has become very good, may be the reason for more energy? I like to eat McNuggets, hamburgers, 12 yuan set meal really save, Ceylon black tea recommended, truly feel that you can choose a lot of meals ah! I've been eating here since I was a kid, and I feel like I can't eat less now! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Because of the new coronavirus, McDonald's is still staying open thank you very much, 24 hours a day, and you can order takeout, no-touch delivery constantly serving the people haha Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: In the sun cloth underground, every business trip on the way bus to the underground to the railway station to buy breakfast here is the most convenient. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: The first McDonald's in mainland China was located at the East Gate in Shenzhen. What a legendary restaurant it was for the people who just opened the door to the country at that time. I will go to this McDonald's every time I go to Shenzhen, even if it is just to have a drink, put this side of the drink, in fact, is the sentiment. I believe all people in this McDonald's will have a different feeling. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: McDonald's is my childhood to eat to the big Western fast food restaurant, burgers never get tired of, has always been one of the places that children like to go, before, now, the future is estimated to be able to maintain, feel McDonald's brand is very with the times, in the innovation at the same time did not forget the root of the service is getting better and better, the environment is also getting better and better, it's very good! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Sure enough, McDonald's favourite is still the button ice cream hahaha, the taste has always felt like milk non-milk, never get tired of eating! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Being in the busy area of East Gate, many students and parents who go to school at Scholastic, interspersed with bustling passers-by stay for a fruitful meal or a small gathering, standardised food and services, no need to waste brain cells, simple, convenient and fast to meet. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Located in East Gate Pedestrian Street Sai Bu Metro Station Exit D, very convenient, good environment, variety, affordable price Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Western-style breakfast McDonald's day to go to the East Gate market to buy things, to go earlier did not eat breakfast just saw a McDonald's went. Because there is a set menu in the morning, I ordered a large crispy chicken steak McMansion combination of only 6 yuan very affordable. Includes a burger and a cup of soya milk, a food is also enough location is very convenient, in the metro station related cloth station out can see, breakfast packages are very affordable, 6-7-8 yuan price are convenient for office workers! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Love McDonald's orange juice. And the breakfast. Breakfast can be replaced with orange juice after you buy it good deal. Because a glass of orange juice is also eleven dollars. So breakfast is $6 for a meal plus two for $8. So cheap. Personally, I think it's OK. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: The first McDonald's, passing by or come to stay and remember the days when I first arrived in Shenzhen. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Christmas is coming~ Come and have a Christmas style matcha waffle, life can't be without a bit of green! 15 for two, the flavour is average, but it's quite eye catching to walk down the street with. The shop is very crowded, but the orders come out quickly and the quality of service is good. We bought ice cream at the dessert station, the machine was not connected to the Internet when we paid, swiped WeChat once and paid cash again, then took WeChat to find the business manager, and quickly gave us a refund~ Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Wandering around East Gate until almost 11 o'clock, hungry again, so in the underground station next to this McDonald's to eat something to replenish energy. McDonald's as a large global chain of fast-food restaurants, food safety and hygiene than some small workshops and small hotels is a lot better, the output is guaranteed, "pineapple pie" "plate grilled chicken thighs burger set meal" which I often eat, the midday meal is not very expensive, good! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Evening stroll through the old street of Dongmen, specially come to card this McDonald's, said to be the first McDonald's in the Mainland, quite a historical significance. The food is not much to say, anyway, McDonald's go where the taste is similar, or the shop itself is more attractive to me. The building is a combination of Chinese and Western architecture, relatively unique, and the location is also in the most prominent position at the entrance of the old street, an absolute landmark. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: After picking up the goods from the nearby storage locker, I was so hungry that my stomach kept thundering, so I thought of having pig's feet rice nearby, but unfortunately it was too late and the shop was closed, so I had to go to McDonald's to have my favourite non-vegetarian burger meal. I haven't been there for a long time, but I found out that they have potato chips instead of French fries, so I had to try it. The fries were probably freshly fried, and the chips were very crispy, not as rough as KFC's, but the portion was a bit small, so I ate them all very quickly. The sauce of the burger was not as good as the previous ones, but I loved the flavour of the sausage, which was the main attraction for me to eat this burger. The shop is very clean and there are service ambassadors to help me with my food. For example, when I was carrying two samples, they came to hold my tray for me, probably because they were afraid that I would spill my soda if I was too clumsy. The only drawback is that there is no bathroom inside the restaurant, so it is a bit inconvenient. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: It's straight from Exit D of the Sai Bu underground station. This is the place to meet every time you're waiting for someone. Very conspicuous. You can see it at a glance. My favourite thing in McDonald's is the McSpicy Chicken Leg Burger. Hahaha. Crispy and slightly spicy. The environment inside is also good. I don't feel crowded. It's nice to sit there and have a soya milk and breakfast before going to work. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: "yeyeyeye - popcorn section" in the sun cloth underground d3 exit waiting for people as soon as you go out to see the McDonald's sun so sunny to go in and buy a drink popcorn section of yeyeyeyeye is also too good to drink it! Sweet coconut flavour and QQ popping soft popcorn super cool and refreshing so hot at noon drink a cup of so refreshing really too good to drink coconut ~ ~ ~ ~ "forget the shape of wheat spicy chicken wings" "plate roasted chicken thighs burger" these two are my favourite every time I come to McDonald's will be ordering chicken wings outside the skin crispy inside juicy really fragrant like McDonald's clerk and then busy service is particularly good to enter the shop to guide the ordering machine in the direction of the direction of the ordering machine do not like the ordering machine to order food If you do not like the ordering machine, the lady will also be very patient to introduce the product to you, especially the pink dress of the lady is the most caring! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: It's not bad, the McDonald's at Eastgate is the place to come, the service is fine, and there are certainly a lot of people during rush hour! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: sun cloth metro station d exit out you can see, the traffic is very convenient, most of the McDonald's are more eye-catching in the street, there are dessert station ~ point a golden arches have spicy and not spicy barrels, inside with are not spicy, suitable for my kind of people who can not eat spicy to eat inside the environment is very OK, clean and hygienic, and now McDonald's is very convenient can be self-service ordering, often come to this shop to eat! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Early in the morning to show you good food for a long time have not eaten m remember, out of so many new products do not know in fact, in Shenzhen to eat, m remember is a cost-effective quite high, do not want to wait for a place do not want to queue up and want to go out to eat quickly or packaged on the road to eat that choose M remember is right drop a person to eat a bucket of A not spicy try to find out that not spicy chicken wings to be too much better than the spicy wings, that is to say that the amount of food amazingly large, a person to eat two! A bucket of a cup of coconut ice and a cup of cola too long not eaten m records, really very good a person can try to eat a bucket of wings bucket that, very tasty oh! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: I grew up eating McDonald's, and for the first time I've taken the initiative to write a review for him. When I was a kid, my mum and dad brought it to eat, but now that I'm older, it feels meaningful to bring my mum and dad to eat. It's as if I'm bringing them to see an old friend, an old friend who has seen us grow up. Double Cod Fish Burger is very tasty, the main is also more nutritious, set meal is more cost-effective Oh. "McSpicy Chicken Thighs and Wings Meal" I think McDonald's McSpicy Chicken Wings is the best food in the world! I really love them. The Eastgate shop is very interesting, there are two tables for two, and there is also a board blocking it, very suitable for couples "Double Decker Deep Sea Cod Burger". Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: McDonald's breakfast is full of energy. Took the kids to McDonald's again. The apple juice for breakfast is not bad. The hash browns are good too. If the bun could be softer, it would be better. It's more suitable for kids. McDonald's breakfast is more nutritious and affordable. Suitable for the general public. Good service. Interact with children. It's even better. I'm a regular customer. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: This is my first time to eat McDonald's to give the Nine Palace. Because the pink lady and little brothers and sisters of the service is super good, waiting for the meal, encountered children are not high enough, need to take a bag to pack, has been high up the chicken legs, the staff will be very warm to help the children to pack, rather than directly hand a bag, so that the children to load their own, this point, I think it's very good, it should be directly to give full marks, after all, eaten so many years of McDonald's, the quality of the food and hygiene are After all, I have been eating at McDonald's for so many years, the food quality and hygiene is clear, so I will strictly pursue the service. Although it is said that the hot wings need to be matched with cola to have a soul, I found that the orange juice with salt-baked chicken wings, with my spiced bone chicken thighs, is also great ~ ~ ~ I do not know if it is not tired of shopping, a little hungry, eat more than the usual aroma, and hope that this McDonald's to continue to maintain good food, good service, because I often come to the nephews of my oh! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Alas, as I write this, I realise that I really do write McDonald's reviews often have a real love for McDonald's. After a day of shopping and eating half full in Dongmen, I planned to walk home and enjoy some time alone. This McDonald's can be found right out of the Sai Bu Road metro station, and of course it's part of the Dongmen business district. Just called Dongmen shop is not a little easy to confuse, after all, Dongmen commercial circle this side of several pieces of McDonald's said ~ see this McDonald's, and a little bit of gluttony, subconsciously open the review, and then reacted to the McDonald's did not group purchase ~ it does not matter, open the McDonald's applet, with points for discounts. Later is 3 yuan for a grey coconut cone la ~ or think McDonald's cone really grey very classic even if these years has been in the price but compared to those who do not move dozens of yuan of net red ice cream McDonald's cone should still be better than the vast majority of the net red ice cream to the delicious, to the cheap McDonald's applet points for concessions on the more cost-effective ~ it is worth mentioning, that the coconut water is really bad ~ Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: I went shopping at Eastgate and saw McDonald's right after I left the MTR, so I had a chicken nugget first. "Plate Roasted Chicken Thigh Burger Set Meal" The original plate roasted chicken thigh burger, eaten at university until now, have never given up, love it. "McNuggets" is my favourite chicken nuggets, I must order it every time, with garlic chilli sauce, delicious. [Environment] The place seems to be not small, but there are quite a lot of people, and after eating, I found that there are people coming in all the time. [Service] service attitude is very good, will also guide the mobile phone ordering without queuing, see something on the table will be dealt with in a timely manner. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Suddenly want to eat McDonald's, nine o'clock in the evening when rush over here to buy, this shop is quite a lot of people, may be considered in the prime location it. Pointed quite a lot of things, the service is not bad, was still worried about not knowing how to take home, thought the bag is not mention the kind of results found that the original McDonald's still have handheld the kind of paper bag it, feel superb, the quality of the paper bag is good, on the road has been afraid of breaking, in fact, very sturdy yeah, to home or intact, a point of praise! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: I usually go to McDonald's on the negative floor of Sai Poo MTR station, and I hurriedly passed by before remembering that there was one here too. The environment is much better than when I was here before, and the decoration has been changed to look more comfortable. The young lady ordered food quite quickly, and the speed of the food is also very fast. The Coke is so full of steam, I haven't had Coke for a long time, and the new Beef and Pineapple Burger is a great way to learn more about it! I really think it's delicious, the ingredients are too full, bread lettuce under a layer of thick pineapple layer of thick beef, sandwiched between a piece of bacon and cheese, too delicious. The wings and McNuggets were fresh out of the oven and super tasty, remember to eat them while they're hot or they won't be as good. I will definitely try the double layer pineapple burger next time before I do! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Members enjoy $2 for a glass of coconut water and $9.90 for a McSpicy Chicken Thigh Burger Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: To the East Gate to buy something, shopping for a while on the hungry, and do not want to go to queue for too long came to this McDonald's is located in the sun cloth Road underground entrance. Here is a lot of traffic, but this time is good ah do not have to queue for too long, point on the "Big Mac classic fries set" "original taste of the new ground" can begin to sit down to eat it, the speed is the reason I chose this place. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Wow, this McDonald's is 10 years old, so it has such a long history. Opened in the East Gate next to the underground station on Sai Bu Road, people come and go, business is very good, a lot of children to eat. Bought McNuggets and Coke especially cheap 12 yuan set meal, McDonald's is really conscientious price. The taste is not bad, so cheap is when the afternoon tea. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: This McDonald's is one of my favourite places to come to, it's right at the Nanhai Centre Exit of Sai Poo MRT Station, just up the road. Especially like his home has a window bar seats, sometimes sitting here eating a burger and drinking coffee watching the crowd come and go daze is one of my favourite things. On this visit, the clerk was especially thoughtful and made me a veggie burger after telling me that I don't eat meat, so I was touched. There is also a dessert station in this Old Mac, which is very convenient for those who want to eat a cone sometimes, and there is also an automatic ordering system, which is convenient and quick! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Night tour of the East Gate. Found a beggar on the side of the footbridge in front of a QR code to collect money sign, and then look at the street full of neon lights, people come and go, but also occasionally people will stop to sweep some money to him. I was curious about what mobile phone he was using, what bank card he was tied to, and how he withdrew his money. However, not waiting for me to continue to think about it, my companion urged me to hurry up to cover the building ah we were exceeded, I silently open the Tmall, grabbed a few cents of the wallet, and then asked, or not, let's find a few more beggars to sell their buildings? Deep well ice ah you, was companion shame, I continue to try to gnaw on the burger and McDonald's limited fat house water. McDonald's cheese is so delicious. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Today, I brought my daughter over to eat McDonald's Eastgate, this McDonald's carries the memories of our generation, ordered this set of joyful package to send two toys, it is a purple pony, my husband wants to eat a Big Mac burger, but there is no inside, listen to him say that this Angus thick beef burger is also very tasty, for him to add the sentimental points or a Big Mac ranked first, right, hahahaha. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Foodies out to discover all kinds of food, Cherish takes you to eat happily and play with peace of mind [Location] Sai Bu Exit D pavement to lose weight? This life is impossible, I'm too hard [Store] Passing by McDonald's was attracted by the aroma. The shop is large, simple and clean, there is a special birthday corner, suitable for children to engage in birthday party. taste] McDonald's signature is of course the double cheeseburger ah, but love to eat chicken wings I directly asked for a bucket, so that you can eat spicy and not spicy ah really worried about the future I will not be able to eat snacks with my baby grab, grow up baby! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: The location is very easy to find, just at the A1 metro entrance of Sai Bu station, the staff service are very good and nice. the flavour is also good. I will try to improve my membership level of the public comment, eat more bully meal. There is a very bully friend, every day in the bully meal, every day to follow him all kinds of eat bully meal, really cool level, now you have to work hard on their own. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Haven't been here for a long time, used to come here a lot when I lived here. I had nothing to do this morning and came here for breakfast Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: It's a great place to rest, wait for people, and chat. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Ran to McDonald's after work. Now it's easy to order your own food. The only downside is the slow internet. There is a free cone when you apply for membership. I've been a member for a long time. I used to bring my little kids downstairs to eat. This shop has so many choices because of the dessert station. It's good. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Got the $3 pie, it's actually not very greasy as the cheese flavour is actually not too heavy hahahaha the original price won't buy it don't worry about it Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Just impressed that McDonald's is still good. Always enjoy coming to this McDonald's. The servers are more welcoming and professional than any other McDonald's spot. Very friendly. The environment is also clean. More more importantly. The location is also very convenient. Highly recommended for everyone! Truly a 5 star shop among McDonald's! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: It's very convenient near the metro entrance! The waitress is so welcoming value for money ~ most of all it's super clean!!!! Sitting inside feels very comfortable! I'm very impressed with this shop! Recommended~^_^ Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: McDonald's Nationwide McDonald's is a great place to come to escape the heat when it's time to shop and it's very hot. The air conditioning is turned up loud. There are also plenty of spots in the shop, but they are almost all full. It's really on fire here! So many desserts are delicious. The service attitude is quite good. The environment is also good. I ordered a sundae and sat here for half an hour in the cold air. Take a break and continue shopping. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: McDonald's discount month, affordable! But I think the cones are too sweet and not creamy enough ...... Still the one at Jinxianmen is better~ Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: My favourite place to eat is their restaurant, it's always crowded, but the food comes out fast. I like to eat spicy wings, every time two people have to order on several pairs of chicken cutlets, McSpicy Chicken Leg Castle. Really although many McDonald's nearby, but is willing to come to his home to eat, personally feel that things will be more delicious, ordering Miss little brother and beautiful and handsome, and polite. Ha ha ha. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: The flavour is quite good ah, often go to eat "plate roasted chicken thighs burger set meal" "wheat spicy chicken thighs burger set meal" "taro pie" "McLeod Chicken Happy Paradise meal" "golden crispy potatoes grams afternoon tea chicken wings combo" all these are often eaten, so tasty [environment] quite good atmosphere, looks high-end, polite and good [service] all quite good haha waiters are good enthusiastic to go to the time when there is someone to open the door, the Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: This is the first McDonald's restaurant in mainland China, opened in November 1988, a long history, right, this M record has also gone through several rounds of renovation, is the iconic restaurant in the old street of Dongmen, although now McDonald's everywhere, long ago not rare, but for the old Shenzhen, this McDonald's is still meaningful, have feelings. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: [Service] [Environment] "Taro Pie" "Mix and match so big chicken fillet taro pie-" Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: For the occasional meal, it's still the classic burger and fries, and the wings are the best~ Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: The lady collecting the money, are you in a bad mood? When she heard we were buying ice-cream, she looked us up and down and told us that ice-cream has to be bought outside at the dessert station, and original ice-cream can only be bought inside. I said that? Then I want the original flavour bla bla bla. He rolled his eyes impatiently and walked away! Please? I was polite from start to finish, may I ask what's wrong with you? It's bad enough that I had a bad hotpot, but now I have to buy an ice-cream and have my eyes rolled back, and now someone can't afford to eat McDonald's? Or are you just going to take money and go to heaven? At that time, I really wanted to use dirty words to greet you, what face do not want to take into account that kind of! If not the male manager said to this side, coupled with the words of my girlfriend pregnant, I really burst on the spot to greet you 100 times! Funny! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Today's Saturday is so hot, I passed by this McDonald's at Exit D of Sai Bu Road, looked at the dessert station, the decoration is gorgeous, couldn't help but go and order a Shindi, just to go and dabble with the air-conditioning inside. It was Saturday and there were a lot of parents bringing their kids to McDonald's. I chose a corner, listened to the song playing in the lobby, and ate my strawberry Shindy by the spoonful, all comforting and refreshing. Thankfully, the beautiful setting and gorgeous decor of this McDonald's made this Shindig even more delicious. I will be back next time, the experience was very good, full marks! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: To shenzhen transit, live in the hotel in the east gate food court side, in order to be close to the east station, passing by McDonald's, actually can also be free to receive Sprite, and the attitude of the lady is too good to be true. The summer heat to a cup, really too satisfied. McDonald's is really the light of the city ah, the heat is unbearable how to do, McDonald's cool ah! The campaign ends at the end of August. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Whenever I come to Eastgate to visit the dentist, I make sure to come here for McDonald's. This McDonald's is at least twenty years old, from primary school to now. Today, I ordered the Crispy Chicken Congee with Pickled Vegetables and Bamboo Shoots Set Meal: i.e. Crispy Chicken Congee with Pickled Vegetables and Bamboo Shoots + Potato Cake + Iced Coffee. There was always a $6 porridge + hash browns combo that was a great deal. But now it is no longer available, it is now egg with congee. I would like to call for the return of the congee + hash browns set. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: After surfing so hungry, an underground exit to see the McDonald's rushed in, my baby's favourite, "plate roasted chicken thighs burger set" baby selected, discs are all finished "McDonald's strawberry flavour" taste superb! [Environment] There are more people, three people sat in the seat of two people, but still very happy! [Service] The waiter was very patient in recommending special offers, and I felt very appreciated! Thank you! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Caught today's $51 burger package deal but felt a little pissed off! As you can see in the picture you get a packet of fries and that's all you get!!!! Even with the offer, the portion is too much! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Waited for 10 minutes and the food was a bit slow and the service was mediocre Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: "Pork Tenderloin Egg McMuffin" This package includes hash browns, drinks (coffee/soy milk/milk), pork tenderloin egg burger ~ pork tenderloin meat is a little salty, the egg is not salty, just to neutralise it. The bread is soft ~ I chose milk ~ is pure milk Oh, prefer to drink pure milk potato pancakes so fragrant and fragrant ah, super like, and the taste of French fries, and I think it is more fragrant than French fries recommended! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: [Environment] table did not receive in a timely manner [service] this shop obviously did not train to, other shops will set up 1 single point of promotion discount mouth, this shop waited the longest "McSpicy Chicken Legs Fort Chicken Wings Meal" on the day of the McDonald's chicken wings buy 1 get 1 free, is really the hardest I have eaten at McDonald's chicken wings, so far think of the plums to quench their thirst. It was salty, extra salty, and it felt like it was fried repeatedly, the outside was off and the inside meat was hard and tough Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Previous love has been KFC never go M record now slowly found that in fact M record is also good ah this new pineapple chicken fillet bar is quite refreshing, the aroma of chicken mixed with this pineapple sweet and refreshing, and then dissolved the pure meat is too dry spell, it is worth to give this package of five-star praise. It's just that the place is too small with not enough seats, after all, this place is inch by inch. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: McDonald's 88 Membership Day, Chicken Thigh Burger as little as 5 yuan! I don't know what to eat at noon, I haven't eaten at McDonald's for a long time, so I ran to a company near to get together ~ in fact, once in a while to eat a McDonald's taste is still very good, the bread body is fluffy, the chicken thighs are tender, but the vegetables are a little less than a drop, carbohydrates, proteins, vegetables, a healthy diet ah ~ Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: This McDonald's in the Luohu District, near the East Gate, near the old street underground entrance, I use the Ink Weather free to lead Sprite over, each account can be led once a day, this shop due to the business district, the seat is very crowded, many people are standing to eat, the product verification speed is still very fast, the clerk is skilled in the operation of the Sprite taste can be, drink too much is the same feeling, summer can be a bit of a thirst quencher. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Overall it was just too many people and too few spots, overall the experience was good. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Love McDonald's and this Eastgate location has the best service! Enthusiastic, and kudos to the guy in the pink work shirt, he's dedicated,!!!! Kudos! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Frequent fast food chain, set menu classic McSpicy set menu was almost doubled by me Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Strolling around Eastgate with my girlfriends, it's so hot in the summer that I can't help but crave ice cream! Every time we come to McDonald's, we come to buy ice cream. This is McDonald's new product, the name of what I forget, but, the taste is really delicate Oh! The window at the dessert station is still convenient as you don't have to queue much. Summer is here, feel to start fat! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: 2019 Review NO262: McDonald's (Eastgate): my daughter's 6pm Nanhai Centre Scholastic class, Nanhai Centre has a McDonald's on the ground floor, very convenient, too late to go home and cook, come to this one. It has been a long time have not been to KFC, indeed, his taste than McKee to be a little worse. Today, my daughter ordered her favourite plate-broiled chicken drumstick burger, because it's been a while since I've had it, and it tasted especially good today. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: "Mango Cheese McSwirl" is my favourite McSwirl, but now it doesn't have the original flavour, it has become mango. But it's still good. There was a second one for half price. got two for $20. Other McDonald's dishes are also good. For example, "McSpicy Chicken Thigh Burger Set", "Vegetarian Beef Burger Set", "Golden Crispy Potato Griddle Afternoon Tea Chicken Wing Combo", "McSpicy Chicken Wings and Chicken McNuggets Meal", "McSwirl Strawberry Flavour", and I usually like "McSwirl Oreo Original Flavour", and "Taro Pie". Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: The new flavour, Mang Siu Chi, didn't have enough mango flavour, no cheese flavour, and the egg cones were crunchy. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Today took my son and sister to visit the East Gate, an underground out of the son called hungry, just passed McDonald's to see the 28th of June Membership Day only 8 yuan then big chicken fillet + Coca-Cola 12 yuan / fries + Coca-Cola 12 yuan, really good deal, and the value of the three-piece set of burger Coca-Cola fries 22 yuan, the shop is clean and tidy, the staff have a very good attitude to service! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: The little girl who took the food there, I just asked in passing Qi did not, why are you so impatient it, I turned round and came back to forget which specific order, a face of impatience directly back to a so many Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: McDonald's out of rice, the name is also with the Japanese, not eaten at noon, tea time with a few colleagues came to this McDonald's to chat, by the way to eat something. Ordered a beef donburi, the word really do not know what to read, with handwriting input method to type up, rice is good, the ingredients inside is not bad it, but still prefer to eat chicken burgers, and eat ice cream! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: This is the largest I've seen a McDonald's, the location in the busy Dongmen Pedestrian Street, McDonald's in the Sun Department Store next to a total of two floors, sitting on the first floor, you can see through the floor-to-ceiling glass below the hustle and bustle of the crowd, McDonald's inside the majority of the ballads played, so it sounds quite a feeling, in addition to the overall environment is good, with a waiter to clean up the desktop on a regular basis, suitable for shopping tired to rest his feet! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Previously also live in Eastgate, often come to eat McDonald's, come to this shop, the standard is a burger fries Coke a down stomach is very full, the fries are very good, much better than those takeaways, burgers ate a lot of kinds of, most of the flavours I like, I personally do not like the chicken drumstick burger, chicken wings or something to eat less. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Located in Shenzhen Dongmen Pedestrian Street near the underground Sai Bu station exit, roadside with a number of buses directly, the location is convenient and easy to find. I went to Shenzhen on a business trip and chose McDonald's because I had to rush back to Guangzhou. The overall area of the branch is not large, unified decoration style, table stools placed narrower, the light is not very bright, popularity is more prosperous. Ordered a Big Mac set meal, the price and Guangzhou is the same, the product and taste is the same, sitting in the window seat, while dining, while watching the outdoor pedestrian situation, feel the atmosphere of the central area of Shenzhen, to give people a feeling of relaxation. I heard about McDonald's ** name before, but I saw that every branch is McDonald's and there is no difference until I consumed and invoiced here, then I realised that the invoice header has been changed to Golden Arches! Feels weird! Will continue to support in the future! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: It's okay, the service is okay, the location is next to exit D of Sai Bu, it's easy to find next door there is a McDonald's. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: It is said that this is the first McDonald's in Shenzhen, counting more than 20 years ago Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Free for members, just passing by, wiped it out, yummy, the ice cream was really good, this weather is so perfect! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: I passed by the McDonald's Eastgate branch and had a bag of fries hot from the oven, this time the portion was a bit small. The fries have a little salt flavour. The air-conditioning is comfortable and I need to go to the toilet in the middle of the journey. The waitress was very helpful in showing me the way to the lift from the KFC door and turn left on the first floor. The downside is that when I went in, I thought it was an ordering counter, but it turned out to be a pick-up counter, which is not a reasonable design. Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Before with the pig to play near the East Gate to eat a late-night snack now have time to write [environment] shop is very large seat much air-conditioned cool "ice cream" crunchy chocolate is very delicious and also not expensive quite praise "double layer deep sea pollock fish burger set meal" this is my favorite two layers of fish with a large bag especially satisfied delicious! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: "Beef Burger Set Meal" This Beef Burger is very tasty, I don't usually eat hamburgers, but this one is very good! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: Today to go to the pedestrian street, a lift out of the mouth, all of a sudden under a lot of rain. Out did not look at the weather ah, heart block did not bring an umbrella two people rushed into the side of the McDonald's, ordered two small set meal to sit down to eat McNuggets two good taro pie is really a long, long time did not eat or as always delicious, sweet, taro things are I have always liked to eat things! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: It's been a while since I've eaten at Golden Arches, the fries I ordered this time were so good, salty and crunchy and I wanted more. However, the burger at the Golden Arches was as bad as ever, the salsa was uneven, the chicken tasted ok, and the burger's bread slices were as dry as ever ~ the taro pie was ok, a bit hot to hold fresh out of the oven, and the waiter had a keen reminder! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonald's (Haian City) Comments: This McDonald's is conveniently located right next to the exit of the Sai Bu MRT station, and many people go in and out of the MRT station to bring food and drinks on the way. Although the overall area is not particularly large, but also set aside a place for birthday parties, haha, really small sparrow with all the essentials. Summer to, McDonald's water is sold especially well, collective eat ice! Area: Nanshan
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: The food was fresh and tasty the service in the restaurant was efficient and the restaurant was cosy and clean Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: The waitresses were great You can eat without queuing during peak hours The ingredients in the restaurant were fresh and tasty Ice cream is sweet but not greasy McSpicy chicken wings had normal texture Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Group purchase is more favourable the best choice for shopping and resting and the environment is also comfortable Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Unbeatably tasty great brand super tasty great value for money highly recommended to queue for a while on a weekday Ingredients are super fresh The location of the restaurant is easy to find Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Its next to the Golden Cinema in Central City opposite Nesco and its easy to find with more comfortable tables and chairs and quick ordering and delivery Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: mint environment location in the tie exhibition centre city G floor environment clean taste wheat spicy chicken wings this is the most delicious things mai mai double cheeseburger poor set meal of the god plate grilled chicken leg burger delicious no burden is recommended to eat eat look overall mai mai really very good is very suitable for everyone to go to the noon to eat eat look hahahaha Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Out shopping with friends take me to eat McDonalds  this group buy is too costeffective buy this package for one person cool find a corner to rest waiting for the time can also pp picture out of the meal too fast do not give the opportunity to p finished hahaha by the way the threepiece set is less than 20 there are burgers fries and drinks this is very much to buy through Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Weekend queues are moderate The restaurant is moderately priced The Oreo McSwirl is amazing The icecold milkshake hides a superb amount of crushed Oreos and each bite is a perfect collision of sweetness and crunch The delicate ice cream and crispy crushed biscuits intertwine to create a wonderful texture that is sweet but not greasy and refreshingly cool to relieve the summer heat Definitely a little summer treat that makes it hard to resist another cup  Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: McDonalds had the burger  It genuinely tasted like my favourite flavour Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: I went there in the afternoon not at dinner time Bread fluffiness general but taste basic online point 1 1 package mainly stomach want to find familiar taste Lead me in which city are a little bit want to card McDonalds first floor view is good the autumn of Beiping is gradually thick go on the road is also the ginkgo biloba a place accidentally will be the autumn colours in the bag a small happy Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: The service attitude is very good the environment is also very good recommended recommended recommended recommended Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: This shop I usually like to come here to rest order a french fries Coke and so on the environment is very good suitable for waiting for people and so on the location is also OKTasteTaste okaymintEnvironmentThe environment is fantasticservice bellServiceThe service has nothing to say full marksPrice Costeffective can be and there are often activities Full marks Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: No queues at this shop on weekdays The food comes out quickly and the ambience is superb Ness Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: The service was excellent and the environment was clean and tidy The food is fast accurate and the meals are fresh A necessary canteen for workers in the neighbourhood Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: It was very tasty and the decor of the McMen yyds shop was superb The flavours of the restaurant are authentic and authentic Ice cream is super smooth Taro pie was normal sweetness Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: The environment is clean and tidy the waiters service attitude is very good the food is very fast ah Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Burger  meaty tasty well seasoned great staff Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: This Round Up Cone ice cream is no less cost effective than Snow Kings The creamy flavour feels much stronger Also the big brand day grabbing pennys is really good value so if you like to stay up late dont miss it yo Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: The location is right in the centre of the exhibition centre with a big signboard and frontage that is easy to find There is a large car park is very convenient Mint environment McDonalds style decoration shop is quite large the environment is spacious and comfortable clean and hygienic the evening dinner point to go to the scene is empty we wrapped up the scene service bell service waiter attitude is quite good The order for the burger meal was pretty quick Fries Angus MAX thick beef bacon burger Double cheeseburger Vegetarian Bastard Double Beef Burger Bacon Vegetable Extract Double Beef Burger Chicken McNuggets 5 pieces Cylinder Newcomers Gift in the public praise and McDonalds software are ordered a few hamburger packages the taste is not bad the portion size is the same the price of the packages are each different but so how to order will be compared to the site to buy a little bit more costeffective Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: The restaurant environment is good very large spacious and bright The decoration is simple and atmospheric many people come often launch promotional activities and new products the most like to eat chicken wings a little spicy the outside is very crispy meat is very tender ah Ive been coming here a lot lately Here the waiter can be good very polite very friendly I like to come here to eat some snacks laze around very comfortable Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Mint Ambience McSpicy Chicken Wings McMac Crispy Sauce Chicken Pipa Legs Favourite McDonalds Fried Chicken Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: The service is very good and attentive and the environment is very clean Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: mint environment really a lot of people ah taste recommended spicy burger is very tasty Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: McDonalds devotees gather When a McDonalds lover doesnt know what to eat his first choice is McDonalds fries especially the freshly fried fries Just thinking about it makes my mouth water and Im so happy to have fries when Im hungry The Choco Chocolate Flavour Triangle Pie is very rich in chocolate The crunchy crust is covered with a rich chocolate sauce Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Ive been eating at McDonalds for breakfast since I got here and sometimes for lunch Recently Ive been eating the Poor Mans Breakfast Set and its so good The custard egg McMuffin breakfast custard egg without ketchup snack hash browns for grilled sausage to the company after the grilled sausage assembled into the burger is not too delicious Its not as salty as the egg with pork tenderloin and the sausage has a juicy texture and with the sliced cheese and egg and a little bit of McNuggets sauce its not tasteless and not very snoozy I really want to eat this every day with my monthly subscription  mainly because its less than 10 for a 3piece set or a large coffee  its not too bad Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Taste good as always mint Ambience quite a big one with indoor as well as outdoor service bell Service served quickly McSpicy Chicken Wings Fries Dry Cocoa McSwirl Cone Ice Cream Plate Roasted Chicken Thigh Burger Crispy Potato Fritters Jumbo Burger So Big Chicken Fillet Mai Mai Crispy Juicy Chicken Sleeve Strawberry Shindy Mai Spice Fish Crispy MultiBamboo Shoots Wrap Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: New to try overall good recommend to try Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: I dont know what to eat when you can brainless McDonalds Center City this shop is very big place a lot of places there are also takeout next to the cinema to try the big meatballs burger to be honest burgers are getting smaller and smaller nowadays to eat one is not enough hahaha meatballs three is not very big slightly salty surprise is that the inside of the white cheese is actually a slice of cheese feel more than the kind of yellow cheese that the taste of the creamy more full Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: On the negative 1 floor of the Link Mall Centre selfservice ordering and fast food delivery Mint EnvironmentThe environment is clean and tidy and there are quite a lot of tables Service Bell ServiceThe service attitude is very good but shouting to get something is not timely enough Flavours McSpicy Chicken Wings French Fries Angus MAX Thick Beef Bacon Burger Pepper Salt Golden Crisp Chicken Wings eaten a few times good reviews Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: It was packed and waited a long time for my meal Everything is freshly fried and generally ok Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Mai Mai really is always God Its super yummy I love it I hope that kind of fried burger will come out again Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: How does it tasteThe answer is fairly simple its a thousand McDonalds flavours Taste7mintAmbience6service bellService7Value for money7 Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Why doesnt everyones favourite burger drink soda Is it cold because Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: The location is easy to find I tried this new muesli flavour Taro Mochi Muesli and it was quite good Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: McSwirl will always be my favourite at McDonalds and its a great deal to buy two Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Great ambience very fast food and great flavours Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Fries  super yummy hot and spicy is the best great Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: The location was easy to find and fast and the air conditioning was cool enough Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Wheres the other half of the cheese slice Just stuck it all on the box for me And the coke wasnt even full Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Its not bad its quite close to the company and its quite convenient to have a set meal every now and then Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: The taste is very good this ice cream has a milky flavour very rich delicious delicious especially comfortable to eat in the summer time and then the environment of this shop is very good the service attitude is also good Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: mint environment just in the bottom layer or very good to find both sides have additional separate small card sitting lunch time still need to wait a little bit location Service Bell Service as always the speed of food preparation Flavour for girls the Big Mac is really really good enough to eat Value for moneyBuy the set meal is still a good deal once a week double the pleasure Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Mint environment the environment is not bad the location is in the Collage Centre it is very convenient indoor and outdoor can sit the place is also quite big Often come over to eat more convenient Service Bell Service The service is okay but sometimes its not very timely to receive the table when there are too many people The Big Mac Burger will buy some special set meals from time to time which is quite good The taste is also okay and the food is very good Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Burger yummy McDonalds forever God yummy love it like it Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Whenever you dont know what to eat McDonalds is always the best choice several times a day is a loyal fan of the favourite fries ice cream plate roast chicken burger is the only choice almost forgot there is also oatmeal milk iron every day is essential since I drank the McDonalds coffee and never tried another Central City this is the place that I was the first in addition to the environment and the service is impeccable every day to see a familiar face is also a kind of comfort right Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: A must for a simple everyday meal quick and efficient Tastes great all year round nothing to comment on clean environment and from time to time a smell of sterilised water Its the price increases over the years that have gone up a bit high much higher than KFCs price increases Occasionally you can meet one or two service enthusiastic staff to introduce you Help you to combine a discount did not meet if you can only highpriced simple food Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: McDonalds delicious delivery classic burger every bite is super satisfying fast service clean environment worthy of five stars Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Recently Mai Mai had an event with cone ice cream at 2rpc matcha soya milk pieapple pie at 35rpc and some burger sets as well I heard about the new Banana Flavoured Cone Ice Cream and it just so happens that I havent had it yet and even though the online reviews dont seem to be too good I still wanted to give it a try It was almost exactly the same as what was described on the internet It was banana flavoured but not banana flavoured it felt a bit like banana milk flavouring so those who like banana milk would like it but I personally prefer the pure milky flavour of the original ice cream to the banana milk flavour The Apple Pie is also something I havent had before and the reviews on the internet are quite polarised I think its because of the cinnamon flavour in it I personally love cinnamon flavour but Ive only had cinnamon flavoured cakes and breads before This pie inside the cinnamon flavour and the cake bread is still some difference this feeling is very subtle do not know how to describe the overall apple pie cinnamon flavour is still very strong sweetness personal feeling is not particularly high not as easy as chocolate pie greasy of course the sense of satisfaction is also almost but this kind of cinnamon personal feeling 188 no merit no fault Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: mint environment the environment is okay service bell service moderate Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Angus MAX Thick Beef Bacon Burger Super authentic beef bacon burger one bite full of beef Spicy Chicken Wings with Wheat is a classic among the classics you cant go wrong with it every time although its a little bit spicy but I really love it Taro Pie dessert is of course taro pie thick taro flavour comes out one bite of burst juice love love love Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: The new Banana  Cone is meltinyourmouth soft sweet and delicious Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: I found that the shop manager does not know how to operate stingy dead every takeaway a paper towel in addition to yesterday to buy 2 Fort  fries  pie  Coke actually loaded together Its not a good idea to buy 2 burgers  fries  pie  coke yesterday and pack them together Besides the fries are packed in a way that the fries are scattered what kind of shop manager is he Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: mint environment the smell of grease is too heavy the air is not good service bell service not much service the hall attendant can not be seen Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Come to Shenzhen to try McDonalds 2 yuan of banana  ice cream  M record a lot of different flavours of ice cream  Matcha  Cherry Blossom  Strawberry  and so on now out of the banana can be a dualflavour always feel that still the original flavour is the most pure where the wheat chicken thighs  burger salsa are so little Karma fries  fried home so yellow Karma salty taste is strong enough to have salt in every mouth I love the salty  sweet ice and fire sense of the most head of dog Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Dessert Centre is under renovation but in normal business this one feels that the speed of food is slower than others Angus thick beef burger does not look so appetising and sells in general The environment will not be reviewed and the service was okay Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Eat an icecream and I said hygiene to do over there I did not give you a recording your leadership can go to hang monitoring to see it this time Wont speak properly help order a meal and I said to go over there to do their own inspection their own inspection on their own inspection Im not sure if youre going to be able to get me to do that but Im not going to be able to get you to do that Im not going to be able to get you to do that Im not going to be able to get you to do that Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Its a nice place with a good environment and quite crowded Often go to eat Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: To be honest a sentence Hong Kong people come to left is the best Karma identification according to the problem is that Hong Kong people are  people on the food they often eat can only prove one thing is that Hong Kong sells a lot of good food and especially breakfast portions enough nutrients and also is our mainland no ga models it is time to Update not only the food itself and also have a paradise toys compared to the past and now the pioneering nature of the total paralysis If the word look is good at least Ill pay for the left good look but the truth is that its good look Ive been a fan of McDonalds since I was a kid but Ikea is really a bit of a pain in the neck Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: In the morning there are a lot of people a lot of orders the clerk is still very nice and the product is organised Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: The flavour is still online but since it doesnt come out online dont suggest that the meal preparation is complete leaving people to go to the front desk and wait empty Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: I bought the set meal the chicken wings were battered and cold and the fries that I added later were also cold or that kind of trimmings really spit it out Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Its been a long time since Ive eaten at Mai Mai and it just so happens that Mai Mai has recently put a lot of old classics and delicious flavours back on the table so I immediately came over for the Twisted Fries and Plate Roasted Chicken Thigh Burger The location of this shop is wrong on the Golder map luckily I saw the big M at the entrance in advance or else I would really have to go the wrong way Twisted Fries is superb except for being slightly salty they are all very good Ordered two at a time and clunked them Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: 99 of the McCafe and pull flowers very surprised  but the concentration is a little shrinkage feel less a concentrated this or breakfast card benefits you can buy two orders a day is very costeffective a month effective environment is good a lot of locations it is easy to find an empty seat to sit down right in the Centre City mall the location is convenient and easy to find Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Good value for money with the comeasyouare package a burger and a coke Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: French fries fries every time you eat are freshly fried very fragrant with ketchup even more delicious Taro Pie every time you come than order Strawberry Xindi super tasty sweet flavour is good kudos mint environment the environment is beautiful and cool location is spacious and bright service bell service the service is also very good Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Try it when you really cant think of anything to eat Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Come over to Futian to do business the first choice is still McDonalds fast and convenient Mint Environment but the environment is average the tables are sticky and the wireless charging is just for show But at least the quality is strictly controlled and the customised beef burger is delicious Open back kitchen you can directly see the live production the back kitchen environment is clean and tidy service bell Service the service is pretty good too the food comes out super fast its the fastest restaurant Ive ever seen food come out Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: McDonalds is the place to go if you cant think of anything to eat and its in a spacious location Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Love coming to this McDonalds the seating is great Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: This McDonalds has a big portion of fries well well well Anyone taking out is advised to open it up at the counter first and check check check If its a little less its acceptable but this is the size of the fries who can accept it Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: So many people in Centre City over the weekend McDonalds was full this one was actually quite big The chicken nuggets have been fried for too long and the fries are still good  I came here for the new honey wings but they are not as good as the previous one a bit sweet not baked well enough and not dry enough and the chicken thighs are even more mediocre hahaha Eat whatever you want Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Wanke) Comments: Mai Mai is right at the Link Centre City1st floor good location and not small in size Service Bell Service The service is still good busy but not chaotic during the morning rush hour Double Layer Original Plate Roasted Chicken Legs Mak Mak Distributed Crispy Potato Cakes Plate Roast is always so classic and delicious with muffins its really yummy  Soya Bean Milk and Potato Cakes with it is also a good choice Area: Longgang
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Location is quite convenient space a lot of people almost can not see the waiter perhaps too busy Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: When you come to the Convention and Exhibition Centre MTR station you have to go to the McDonalds in Central City if you want to eat crispy potato pancakes Breakfast is served until 1030am so I was lucky to be able to place my order on the MTR before the main meal I thought I could get my meal when I arrived but I still had to wait the staff said the chicken steak was being prepared It took more than 20 minutes from placing the order to getting the food which is a bit inefficient Maybe there were not enough staffs on that day but it doesnt matter the most important thing is the food The design of the Crispy Chicken Steak McMuffin is a bit strange the chicken steak is crispy but the McMuffin is a bit hard to bite which is fine for me but the elderly may not be able to bite it and have to eat congee The crispy potato cake is crispy in the mouth just like the past attraction it would be better if it can be bigger in size A sip of hot coffee gives you strength for life The environment of the shop is very clean the location is quite large and the staff is very courteous Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: mint environment very good very comfortable service bell service the service is also quite good out of the meal very quickly a mortal set meal one to eat completely enough Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: not vegetarian bully double layer beef burger new limited time only ten dollars to what bike ah bite like a sausage mouth smiley face strange scary to taste it how to say it in the middle of the road is mediocre overall taste is on the side of dry bar kind of not much taste in the price of so beautiful on the basis of the I understand the thin skin caramel V wings this should be quite a test of skill it after all the new product can be retraining training to the table when the meat are fried old with a The time and heat is not so in place watermelon popping beads flavour wheat whirlwind seldom use evil to describe a dessert pointing with a beautiful mood after stirring to eat to sweet snore me a heel OMG Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Out for some afternoon tea and touch of fish with my colleagues this afternoon Recently there is an event not vegetarian of the bar 10 yuan beef juicy In addition to buy a box of 10 sharks fin with two cups of cola only 399 also very costeffective Inside the shop in the afternoon is not particularly many people at least there are seats to sit close to the inner end of the mall it is slightly hot There is also a selfservice ordering machine at the entrance which is very convenient Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Work meals McDonalds constant companion consistent delivery and excellent quality Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds home children simply every week to clamour to eat can not understand the fries so delicious it hahaha every day called the fries but McDonalds fries is indeed eaten inside the best although the fire will be hot but still can not resist his temptation ahhahahahaha the next time to try the hamburger punch Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The chicken wings are delicious and its crowded on weekends Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: I feel like the chicken fillets arent as good as they used to be its like theyre getting smaller in size  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Fast food location is easy to find Convention and Exhibition Centre metro station Liancheng Xintiandi walk for a while or leading the exhibition of the west side of the door can be to the clerk attitude are also very good seating a lot of Mai Mai crispy chicken super delicious  every time you crave for fried chicken or something to eat crispy chicken  chicken thighs to choose the legs of the chicken Personally I feel that the chicken breast is a little bit too fatty Recently there is also free chicken in crispy sauce on Monday The wool can be gripped Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds position in the menu selection should be in addition to KFC can not be out of its right in the hot summer without appetite choose a McSpicy Chicken Leg Castle set simply save all kinds of no appetite with a full of ice cola a bite into the soul heat relief The beauty is that there is no place to recharge otherwise it is a good choice to come here for afternoon tea Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: As a Hong Kong resident we always try out the cheap and delicious McDonalds food at McDonalds Shenzhen This time I visited McDonalds during the Dragon Boat Festival McDonalds was offering 20 for 10 pieces of chicken nuggets and 10 for 10 pieces of chicken nuggets I chose the 10 chicken nuggets to enjoy first Chicken nuggets should be served with sauce so I ordered 3 boxes of Honey Mustard Sauce a flavour not available in Hong Kong with less volume of sauce than the Hong Kong ones but at a cheaper price I also chose the Coarse French Fries which are not available in Hong Kong and they are bigger in size and have a stronger potato flavour The 1350 Double Choice Set Meal is even more affordable with a choice of a double cheeseburger with soda chicken nuggets and curly fries on top its really a filling and cheap meal Last but not least the packaging of McDonalds is very attractive just like the box with chicken nuggets it is a limited edition with eyecatching design All in all McDonalds Shenzhen has a very good priceperformance ratio and even Hong Kong people should go there for a meal Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Children like the happy paradise meal toys are Doraemon cod and classic burgers are very tasty children like to eat quite happy the shop is quite large divided into two areas Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: This McDonalds in the collar exhibition Centre City on the ground floor Oh a lot of seats Oh very much like to eat their family plate burning chicken thighs Castle and spicy chicken thighs Castle these two flavours are very tasty put the burning chicken thighs Casserole is not spicy spicy chicken thighs Castles chicken is deepfried slightly a little bit of spicy Oh they often have activities Oh quite costeffective Oh out of the meal is also very fast Oh Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The environment is good breakfast hash browns taste ok just a bit small plate roasted chicken leg burger is good soya milk is ok Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Maks Spicy Chicken Wings wings are good Fries summer fries are kids favourite Chicken Leg Burger one burger is full Taro Pie Strawberry Sundae delicious Crispy Potato Pie crispy Crispy Cocoa McMuffin Angus MAX Thick Beef Bacon Burger Mak Maks Crispy Chicken Pipa Thighs Cheesy Angus Thick Beef Burger Sleeve recommendable Mint Ambience quite good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: There are several choices of Old Maks near Futian High Speed Rail Station this time I came from Convention and Exhibition Centre Station so this one is the most convenient The black coffee tastes good the omelette and hash browns are fresh and the ambience is nice so Im quite satisfied Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds Family Bucket is full of flavour and happiness The golden fried chicken is crispy and delicious the spicy fries are crispy on the outside and tender on the inside and with refreshing drinks it satisfies the taste buds of the whole family Whether its a family gathering or a gathering of friends the Family Bucket is a great choice for a fun time Recommend packing this for picnics Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Love the cone ice cream so much yummy  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds is what it is A favourite of mine for many many years If you dont know what to eat just eat Old Mac Double McFish is the cure for all my sad moments with its many sauces Everything can be solved by the double layer of McFish spicy wings are also very good fries ah is sometimes too much salt sprinkled salty sometimes no taste of each shop clerk mood varies in general fries is a suggestion can be improved ah because often packaged packaged to eat when they are not in the shop or else certainly want to change Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The recent McDonalds packaging is super nice  also with 10 yuan 10 pieces of McNuggets of chicken activities and  2 yuan have stacked dragon boat Yong Ai Mai Men Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Very tasty worthy of the old brand ah is great playing workers exclusive haha like to eat a burger can try Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Address Located in Line 1 and Line 4 of the Convention and Exhibition Centre Station Exit C B1 level next door to a Jin Yi International Cinema Cinema very good to find out the meal very quickly the service attitude is very good selfservice scanning code or to the selfservice machine ordering eat next door to the cinema can be seen by the way to see the film or stroll around Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: This McDonalds is the dirtiest and worst experience Ive ever had smelly dirty and full of mosquitoes Ahh Centre City is really not a place to go its getting worse and worse Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds Shenzhen new product Sultan King Durian Fruit Meat Xindi 265 immediately get a first look bought a cup to taste durian flavour is strong with soft ice cream perfect match yes Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: One grain of chicken McNuggets is too much for you Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The shop is not small both entrances can enter but only close to the ordering area this side of the air conditioning is strong the back half is still quite hot Everyone is used to mobile phone ordering there is still a selfservice ordering machine may be for those who only have a phone watch to pay for the preparation of the children weekend to see a lot of students in the small girlfriends chatting while eating Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The taste is delicious and at a glance let people feel very appetising but the portion is not large so friends with a large stomach capacity can order more the dishes are also very fresh the taste of salty and light and the fire is mastered just right the speed of the food is fast not long after the point of the meal out of the meal out of the meal is efficient the summer comes to eat is very comfortable cold air recommend friends to this M record Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Ice cream  delicious give this bad review because of the service attitude bad review this dessert station has been no one it is written above the normal business temporarily leave need service bell the results of the seven or eight minutes past or no one thinking is not to WeChat scanning code ordering bell the results of the press is still no one and then seven or eight minutes past and then came to an aunt I told her that the bell is not bad I told her that the bell is not bad waiting for ten minutes have not responded the aunt is not slow to say what is urgent and will not be less of you that attitude can be imagined how bad I instantly speechless I said I have not seen the point of an ice cream to wait for seventeen or eighteen minutes the focus is still not to queue up the aunt not only do not reflect on their own but also feel that they are right I really hope that the boss to change it or really no guests dare to go not to mention repeat business a serious bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation Im sorry Im sorry Im sorry Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Not bad a simple bite for a work meal too many people on the weekends to make room for it but overall the flavour was good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: At the underground entrance near the convention centre I took a lunch break and ordered a doubledecker burger and black tea the burger was beef patty with egg and a sandwich layer The black tea was particularly fragrant and tasty and although it was made from tea bags it was hot Its especially good for a girl with a cold like me love love love it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Do not know what to eat when will choose McDonalds la the location is particularly good to find very conspicuous the site is not a lot of people even if it is the weekend to go there is also a place to sit pick up the food time is particularly short on the meal very quickly Service attitude is not bad McDonalds quality control is very stable the site environment is also quite good very clean very comfortable not noisy Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Suddenly I realised that I hadnt written a review for McDonalds which I grew up eating McDonalds is really my favourite restaurant bar none Whenever people ask me what Im eating its the first thing that comes out of my mouth From when I was a kid I would always order the childrens set meal and now I would always choose the McSpicy Chicken Leg Burger as long as its a burger and the flavour hasnt really changed much But I have to say that the quality of the portion is really more and more mini think of the previous McSpicy Chicken Thigh Castle that piece of meat and thick and big there is juice it really brings back memories Now every time I eat it its faggy and thin and this one I hope will really be properly restored back to what it used to be I have complaints about it but still love it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds which is loved by both men and women of all ages is not only delicious and affordable but also has a lot of activities which is really perfect for working people Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Never had such a perfunctory American and plain water like the burgers plate of chicken is only a small half  when McDonalds is so outrageous  really is speechless Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds breakfast often ordered before work directly ordered to bring the company to colleagues with also convenient the exhibition of this mm was I stepped flat almost hahaha Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Occasionally a month is once or twice will not hate the thing every time will order ice cream is very good taro pie is also a favourite Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The group had a fish and chips set menu the portion was just right and the location was easy to find Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Its located at The Link Centre City easy to find lots of seats very comfortable shop I came here to take a break and just ordered ice cream  it was delicious and smooth enough And the music is so healing Its a very clean and simple place to eat fast food No odour Its conveniently located at the metro station Lots of good shops and eateries nearby Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The freshly fried fries were delicious  although travelling with a cold was hard The shop was very welcoming The manager and the staff are very polite Eating something familiar is also a little bit of comfort Its not hard to find the place Rarely does McDonalds play KPOPits an amazing feeling Luckily this McDonalds in Centre City is still around Hang in there come on Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds burgers  good  good  good  Perfect  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The ice cream guy made a very small hollow Poor review Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: 9 9 of the McCafe is not bad ah  to be stronger than the small blue cup to be a drop concentrated to give enough to drink than expected a lot of rich nutty breath is obvious that the overall than the previous to be a lot of progress mobile phone ordering is very convenient but also to adjust the amount of ice pouring is surprised at the environment is comfortable especially sofa position after dinner a cup of coffee is still very comfortable Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The McDonalds Double Angus Thick Beef Burger has become almost a standard dinner for both of us at the movies Its better than even the KFC Burger King Thick Beef Burger Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Love McDonalds breakfast So yummy  Love the ham ones so much Its super cheap and super satisfying in the morning to start an energetic day Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: A penny McDonalds cone that tastes the way it did before is the best cone ever Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: My company then in the vicinity of this shop often nothing to come over to eat a cone ah eat a hamburger what ah and so on is also very relaxing ah basically come here to drink a cup of coffee ah ah and then play with the mobile phone ah are very good the service attitude is also as good as ever ah and then the activities of McDonalds is still a lot of Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Ive been longing for McDonalds to finally satisfy myself and Ive always felt that McDonalds chicken wings would be more delicious its fried very crispy and tender very fragrant Ive been enjoying it and Ive been wanting to eat it lately but I havent realised it yet so Im just bored today so Im going to give myself a chance to arrange for it Recommendation McSpicy Chicken Wings Angus MAX Thick Beef Bacon Burger Cheese Angus Thick Beef Burger Set Italian Balsamic Barbecue Flavour Angus Thick Beef Burger can can can Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: First time I had McDonalds plate roasted chicken thigh burger set  rarely eat kfc and McDonalds tasted pretty good peppery sauce flavour  love the McDonalds fries were great Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McMen The double custard burger is just my favourite As soon as I smelled the aroma emanating from the Double Cheese my stomach suddenly got 23 times bigger The double cheese  brings a hint of salty flavour  that double layer of solid beef is unbeatably satisfying with every bite And my favourite pickle It really goes perfectly with the burger Loved loved loved it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Its the last day of the punch card event so go and punch in to win peripherals with phone holders phone pouches sticky notes small notebooks and breakfast for 15 buy one get one free Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Shenzhen shopperMcDonalds McDonalds McDonalds believers for the first time in this McDonalds to eat the shop inside the location is quite a lot of vanilla is so sweet ah 14 yuan 1  1 poor peoples set meal suitable for use as afternoon tea Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds cones there is an event 29 ten you can redeem three at a time McDonalds cones feel pretty good both tasty and cheap Even if there is no event the price is not expensive Recently the weather is too hot so having a cone is a great relief from the heat Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The burgers were really very good I didnt get enough of one and had another one Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Vernal Equinox buy one get one free to eat a Mai Mai breakfast  I grew up to love eating M record today specially come over to clock the event  buy one get one free breakfast online to redeem  offline three packages  coffee  mint environment the environment is good the space is very large Oh and the lighting is very suitable  service bell service because of the event so a lot of people the service is average ask bathroom  where is very impatient double plate grilled crispy chicken steak McMuffin oatmeal milk iron the good thing is that McMuffin is a hot mouth milk iron is also good drink Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: In this side of the shopping come over to order a McSpicy chicken wings in the middle of the things left here the evening just remembered thanks to the waiter to help put away I called the errand boy to get back Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Clicky Crispy Chicken Thigh Burger Forever Pure Dollar  Its a black pepper flavoured nonspicy burger with lots of juicy chicken thighs served with peanut butter sauce and side dishes galore So when it returns I just say Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Ha ha ha ha see McDonalds need to come to shop a little I would have to pack my foodie neighbours have to eat before going home well Kaka a meal point she likes what I like to order are happy ah today is another day to support the head of the day anyway just point are delicious Good service good environment see you next time and go home with fruits Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: And friends busy at night in the Royal Court finished after many shops are closed hungry to dizziness we finally was saved by McDonalds thank you there are 24 hours of McDonalds fortunately from us on more than 400 metres although the shop navigation past a little less easy to find probably because of the energy is too low to lose a sense of direction so go a lot of wrong way but still thank you for a place to stay with us Clean and tidy environment people of all colours come and go you come or do not come it is there quiet not sad or happy We ordered a small bucket for two and as usual the food was nothing spectacular all fried food with no nutrition but it was still OK We found some new products so lets try them next time Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Its very tasty its really a warm dining hall for the workers who are fighting Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: This mkees produce is not good every time Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: This is one of my most frequented McDonalds located on the ground floor of Link Centre City in the central district of Futian I like to come here because its relatively quiet on weekends around office buildings Young masters can also read and write here After breakfast you can take a stroll in the park at the back and go back to Centre City when you are hungry Lately the stays have been shorter because Im afraid of the crowds Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Arranging for Mai Mai Lots of great deals lately Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The environment is great the coffee looks and tastes great the new rolls are delicious and overall its pretty good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Selfordering members have discounts Seats are scarce on holidays when its crowded Chicken McNuggets is not as good as before Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: For me McDonalds is the existence of indulgence yes such as craving thin hungry unhappy to a pair of chicken wings not two pairs to clear all the unhappy have been thinking about its breakfast pork tenderloin egg McMuffin full of points is too tasty and the coffee is also good what on earth are the beans If the company does not have breakfast is really to eat McDonalds every day Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The ambience is great its my kind of place the food is great Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Often ordered to eat in the car commute on the road to solve the dinner random order does not step on the mine Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Ive been coming over for lunch on occasion and the set menu Ive been ordering a lot lately is the Angus Bacon Back Beef Burger which requires a little bit of advancement because the beef is freshly fried and if you arrive at the shop and order it again you may have to wait five to ten minutes but this burger is so good it has surpassed the Big Mac as a favourite McDonalds is truly a place where you cant go wrong with anything Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Ive always wondered about double cheeseburgers and why McDonalds just tastes better than Burger Kings beef patties when its the same patty made from ground beef I stopped by for two double cheeseburgers on New Years Eve This double cheeseburger feels like the best value for money in McDonalds and it has relatively soft slices of bread Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The taste is very good and the service sensation is very good all have a positive response and answer my questions Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The worst service ever encountered I placed an order for two McSwirls 15 buy one get one free on the applet at 2150 when I arrived at the shop to pick up my order the clerk informed me that he would not be allowed to pick up the food saying that there was no dispensing code after my order was completed and told me that I would be refunded automatically and asked to purchase it in the form of a second halfprice at the shop 2250 At the same time when I was ordering from the selfservice ordering machine in the shop the clerk had a very When I ordered at the selfservice kiosk the clerk told me in a very general manner that the kiosk could not be used for ordering food and that I could only order manually But at that time I just didnt want to bother others to help me write off my coupon and I ended up completing my order at the selfservice ordering machine myself Later I went to ask the clerk if I had completed my order on the applet so I should be able to enjoy the buy one get one free offer and the clerk informed me that the applet system had been shut down and it couldnt accept my order but the page of my order showed that my booking was successful again I found the customer service of McDonalds but the customer service only promised 23 working days to me to solve the problem and finally was added to the McDonalds manager of the enterprise WeChat to be able to solve the problem and at the beginning of the statement that my order will not have a matching code but also with the beginning of the statement is not consistent So I have to suspect that the employee privately use discounts require customers to manually order offline operation from which to earn the difference in price or else why should I be told that the selfservice ordering machine can not be ordering food and I Why else would you tell me that the selfservice ordering machine cant order food when I successfully ordered food and tell me that a successful reservation without a food code equals that the restaurant didnt receive my order and told me at the beginning that I wont be able to order food with a food code but I was able to order food again at 2240 or so Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The ambience is great and theres a lot of food I come every day and its really quite good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Its all my favourite food and the ambience is very nice its worth coming back more often Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The environment is good and the food is delicious we recommend you to come and try it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: mint environment very good to find the place also has a selfservice ordering machine is very convenient is slightly less seats sometimes have to wait for a seat Service Bell ServiceNot bad the closing is quite timely My favourites are the doubledecker custard and the notsovegetarian bar In fact every McDonalds will taste a little different this one produces very consistent good review Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Ive already tried using the McDonalds app to order cheaper than the Dianping set meal voucher I used 235 last time to order a double decker beef cheeseburger  plus a taro batch  135 plus a cup of McCafe latte 99 this time in the Dianping to buy a voucher for 199 for a single decker beef burger with corn and a cup of black tea but I dont like black tea so it didnt work for me and its just a The single layer beef is too thin for me to use the review coupon Its better to order on the app Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The Original Plate Roasted Chicken Thigh Burger is so good its infinitely repurchased Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Great service and the beautiful sister was very attentive and considerate Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Great a must for hitting the workers breakfast Its a great deal Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: So Big Chicken Fillet is very tasty grabbed the American Tuans roll and got it for 2 bucks Super Big Chicken Fillet with juicy meat McMac Crispy Chicken Legs McDonalds McMac Crispy Chicken  Pipa Legs a 307kcal 130g Protein 26 198g Fat 56 189g Carbohydrates 18 140g Chicken in McMac Crispy Juice Yummy Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The McDonalds over here is nice and clean and the food is great Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The environment is beautiful and the food is good the service is very good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Its very good Ive been here many times The cafeteria downstairs in cbd Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Its great I feel good about eating here Ill come back next time Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds from small to large this side of this also open count quite a long time before the whole day over to our home to eat the most favourite drink their milkshake has not but their McFish is still very tasty and often the children will come over to buy here to sell to buy the McWhirl icecream and sometimes there is a halfprice quite good childhood memories are here quite good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: In the collar exhibition centre g floor next to Nai Xue a little difficult to find from the underground exit out probably have to be 500 metres to the newly launched 10 yuan twopiece set crispy juice chicken legs with Coke and then ordered 139 of the poor mans set of double cheese with a mini sundae yyds and again a simple meal peak time the whole restaurant are people should be all the nearby office workers the Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: When youre hungry McDonalds is all about aspect and consistent quality Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Affordable easy to order and lots of new products that taste great Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The service was quick and the food was of good quality Will eat again next time Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The free McSwirl with any purchase that I received from paypal was so good So delicious Then order a poor mans set meal for workers just right I chose the Chicken McMuffin Burger first time its also very good and the Taro Pie every time I choose it its too good value for money A lunch 139 to solve And very full eat also satisfied Love McDonalds as always Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The fries  were crispy and the burger was delicious  its my favourite  mint Ambiencemint Environment very good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: This coffee barista pull flower has been good sometimes go to other homes will not pull taste will really be different environment is also good service is also good recommended recommended Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The environment is clean and hygienic the staff service is patient and attentive and the meals are fresh and tasty Recommended Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Loved from a young age no child can resist Mai Mai right Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: 11 is really awesome mint EnvironmentMcMenamins are not service bell ServiceService is just like that Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: I love this breakfast so much that I have to buy one every day when I go to the office Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Hygiene is a bit slow when its crowded the speed of food could be improved but otherwise its fine Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Convenient fast comfortable environment easy and quick to pick up and order Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: It was ok the shop was very nice The lady was also very nice ordered lots of chips to eat and a burger the shop was clean and not too trendy perfect for relaxing and playing with your phone headphones on and then a burger Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: mint environment clean and tidy not particularly crowded when I went service bell service okay McSpicy Chicken Wings fries double cheeseburger McMac Crispy Sauce Chicken Set McMac Crispy Sauce Chicken Pipa Thighs strawberry cones platebroiled chicken thigh burger jumbo burger Cheese Angus Thick Beef Burger Set So Big Chicken Fillet Cylinder Ice Cream Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Its conveniently located right downstairs from the office so grab some McSpicy Chicken Wings for the occasional event Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Chicken Thigh Burger  a burger to fill you up after not having lunch I feel a bit dry  Ice Cream Cone  a classic ice cream cone Ive been eating it for more than 10 years Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Love buying vouchers at VW and then going to the app to use them very convenient Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: When you dont know what to eat eat McDonalds Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: This one tastes quite peculiar not unpleasant but not my favourite flavour Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The dining environment is good for after lunch Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: I love McDonalds McMuffin Breakfast its easy to find there are plenty of places to eat and you can pick up your food quickly Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Angus MAX Beef Bacon Burger McDonalds is getting more and more expensive you cant afford to order takeaway you can only eat in the shop Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Centre City McDonalds every noon after work to go to the people are quite a lot now point a meal are mobile phone scanning code ordering very convenient do not have to queue the shop in the centre of the city inside quite wide every time you want to eat fried chicken wings when they run to buy because of the close ah the meal is also fast ah hahaha sometimes will deliberately go to buy ice cream to eat and also to buy ice cream to eat Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The waitress was very polite the shop was clean and hygienic and the food fries etc were well fried Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: mint environment the environment is very good service bell service service is very good convenient convenient delicious Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Big crowd big seats not enough seats even on weekends Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: I bought a set meal for 3 people Its 10R cheaper than the public 3 burgers 3 drinks and snacks To be honest this is the first time Ive seen a McDonalds this cheap The product is certainly not a problem not because of the cheaper 10 yuan will not be the same Its a great deal Estimated or circle on the activity it Indeed the United States group now spend a lot of effort to do of course the most costeffective into the guests Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Its pretty cool the groupon is a good deal and its easy to order Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The environment is very good all I love to eat often come to the family really good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The environment is very good the most like to sit in front of the sofa very comfortable The company is very close to this often come to eat the product is stable Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Good review The ambience is also very nice McMuffin Crispy Juicy Chicken recommended Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Its a big shop its been open for many years and I often stop by his place to refuel and have a little sit down when Im tired of wandering around the centre city Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Mammon So delicious love the quality as always Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Its even better than Hong Kong so every time I come to the Mainland Ill definitely patronise it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Good food  fast food very nice environment love this place Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The food comes out quickly the portions are generous the restaurant is clean and the flavours are good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The first choice in fast food quick and tasty but easy to catch fire Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: mint environment can be ha this shop good point is that it has a part of the seat can be wireless charging is very novel haha space is quite big seat quite a lot  McDonalds quite pit point is that a lot of things have to buy it members can be the normal price of a hamburger package no members than members expensive so much Membership price is also the previous normal price duck only this with the 1 1 package more than 10 yuan costeffective point Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Awesome Yummy yummy yummy McDonalds is so good and the new packaging line puppies are so cute Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Fries I love McDonalds Mint Ambience Many locations haha Service Bell Service Selfservice Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: I always get tired of McDonalds cones and I heard that they recently came out with a matcha flavour so Ill try that next time I go Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Its a big shop McDonalds as always is a good place to pass the time Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Fries  just fried very crispy and sprinkled with salt  great texture Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: New Matcha Cyclone flavour is hard to say the taste is very greasy always like their ice cream but the new Matcha Cyclone taste is really not good greasy even if but also with a little bit of bitter I feel that now the taste is really getting more and more strange not as good as the past the other ice cream flavour is good this Matcha is really not recommended Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Its stable just the fries are a bit greasy But cost effective and efficient Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The first time I ate McDonalds was so much fun it wasnt too expensive the environment was exceptionally nice and the burgers were better than Wallace Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: mint environment location in the Convention and Exhibition Centre metro station of the Link Exhibition Centre City the mall is inside the Golden Cinema next to the outside is next to the Nespresso The shop is still relatively large there are many locations every time you go there is basically a location There are a lot of people on weekdays and weekends It is very suitable for watching a film to be too late to eat buy some food and drink in McDonalds Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Cafe Grass Chicken is good the environment is good the service is even better and the food comes out exceptionally fast Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The flavour is fine Children like to eat mint environment general Service Bell Service Service is enthusiastic Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Regular shop very good Recently there was an event recommend Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The ambience is nice and the service is good for a quick meal Mai Mai Crispy Sauce Chicken Set Mai Mai Crispy Sauce Chicken Pipa Thighs Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds fries are still good and the chocolate on top of the ice cream is quite tasty Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Set menu needless to say the classic is delicious and affordable service bell service very good mint environment nice Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Who can say no to McDonalds please Snack platter my love Cant live without McSpicy Chicken Wings  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The McDonalds in Shenzhen is even better than the one in Hong Kong with good service how do you expect the one in Hong Kong to survive Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The ambience is great the fries are crispy and the chicken thighs are delicious its one of my favourite food places its so good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Ive recently fallen in love with McDonalds again Ha ha ha Restraint Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Its so cold and tasty I feel so comfortable after eating it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Point and click for vouchers scan the order pick up the small ticket and its packed before I even sit down God speed Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Disneys 100th year is quite suitable for children to spend their birthdays oh Mammon Forever Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Clean environment great service fast can come back often Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds is great the goto lunch for working people Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: mint environment the environment is still quite good space is wide directly from the underground station inside through to soon  service bell service the service is quite good fast food turn the table quickly not afraid of no position to sit Ten wings meal is delicious and affordable like spicy crunchy can get into yo Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The new kids set comes in a beautiful package with cute toys The fries were crispy and the burger was great Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Heartwarming Disney toys and heartwarming McDonalds kids set Yummy  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The service was great the ambience was great and they also had my favourite burger and fries  ha  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Now you can scan the code directly at the machine and use the circle so convenient this location is suitable for breakfast to touch the fish Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The food came out fast the fries were crispy and the service was exceptional 5 stars Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Super love the McSpicy Chicken Thigh Burger I have to order it every time Once a week I have to hit McDonalds to get the food out especially fast and the service is great Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Outside to play McDonalds is the first choice basically McDonalds is a constant flow of people order a set menu did not pay attention to the time of ordering after the meal found that there are really too many things can not eat ah Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Once you enter the mall the drinks and coffee are all expensive so youre right to choose Golden M The second one is also halfprice Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: This McDonalds has been open for years its not bad its a good choice for fast food Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: mint environment very costeffective in the daily seconds inside the voucher to grab from small food in addition to the price change or very much love to eat Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds McSpicy Chicken Wings is my favourite I loved KFC before but lately I think McDonalds tastes better McSpicy Chicken Wings chicken is more tender the breadcrumbs are fragrant the bread and greens are also fresher in addition to its other baked wings and the small desserts are also tasty PERFECT go to the collateral exhibitions will go to the neighbourhood to shop around and when youre hungry youll eat some snacks or more satisfied service Bell Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Yummy The fries are crunchy You need more vegetables and more sauce Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Treating my mates to a couple of set menus one burger and 1 coke after a busy day we all had a great meal Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McMuffin Crispy Sauce Chicken Set PlateBroiled Chicken Thigh Burger and some new products Creamy Chocolate McSwirl Its unbeatable Go and try it I didnt realise that McDonalds still had vouchers for the general public got a Gaga Mahjongs Plate Roasted Chicken Thigh Burger mediocre Nothing particularly amazing felt like the same old plate roast Felt like it was still 11 flavourful Please dont raise the price Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The fries are extra crispy every time I visit and the McMac Crispy Chicken tastes amazing Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Really admire this shop things less even if but also not delicious and called half a day no one responded want to eat in the shop called half a day waiter no one to take care of can only choose to take out Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Hit the workers canteen McMenamins Forever Last years favourite was the Katzs Chicken Burger coated with sesame sauce it was delicious the chicken wasnt as spicy as the McSpicy Chicken Thigh Burger there was a slice of tomato and the overall taste wasnt too dry and gaggy I dont know why it was taken off the shelves such a shame But Angus is also good McSpicy Fish is also delicious McDonalds restaurant is amazing always make people sit in the shop feel hot and fragrant Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The environment is very clean McSpicy is very tasty often order these I like you can also try different flavours I think they are quite good good service is the reason why I often come service bell service really good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds fries  are my favourite Im a fries star hahaha the McSpicy Chicken Wings are also very good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: As always it was convenient and quick and the service lady was good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Hey the fries are good the burger has lots of veggies and its affordable and punchable Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The restaurant has a lot of space many locations and the food comes out very quickly the public ordered a set menu and the service is also very good recommend this  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: A good place to fix lunch the new chicken wings are so good to be honest the beef burger has a consistent flavour the fries are always good as long as they are freshly fried and once a week its a great meal for fattening up Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: This mj eat a lot of years it in addition to the baby chair a little dirty outside the weekday night people are very few next to the sunken square is very comfortable new  sesame sauce cheese plate burning is actually   very little all the sesame sauce with the taste of todays childrens paradise meal to send the Stitch doll Oh quite cute every time you go meland dont know what to eat all come to this mj Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The service was great the tapas set was delicious the burgers had a wide variety to choose from and the food was served quickly so Ill be back next time Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The environment is great the food is delicious  everyone can come and check it out the service is really good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Mint environment the environment is great Both sides have a place to sit Miss service is very good afternoon people are not a lot of people do not know what to eat down to eat a set menu is very costeffective The meal is very fast Super tasty portion full location in the collar exhibition Centre City G floor is easy to find the weekend is also very suitable for small sisters to come over to eat and talk about the day will not be very noisy and quiet Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The new product tastes good the environment is good the food comes out fast Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The environment is good the fries are very good McSpicy Chicken Leg Burger taste very good Oh recommend that everyone to the shop experience Oh Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Grabbed the 3piece set for 1290 super deal for lunch wish there were more of these events Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The shop is quite big with a dessert shop next to it and the food comes out quickly which is not bad Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Collage Centre Do you want to see what kind of fries youre loading Medium Fries Is it because of the takeaway or is it because of the Angus Gouda set its going to hang on to the name of medium fries  doing small fries The amount of small fries in the name of medium fries really pisses me off Also gave me a pressed box Gundam because of the takeaway luckily I opened it on site and looked at it and immediately went to get a replacement one Really impressed Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds was launching a new discount package online buy people quite a lot it is best to order online and then go there to pick up but also to avoid the midday rush hour That package really do not too costeffective there is the classic McSpicy Chicken Thighs burger plus fries with Coke plus a pair of McSpicy Chicken Wings plus a piece of chicken steak the midday meal is too satisfied Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Golden Crispy Potato Griddle This is my favourite french fries its pink and sticky very tasty Pineapple Pie Slightly sweet pineapple pie Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Love their McSpicy Chicken Wings and NotSoSoBar Burger  Only recently I realised that there are events on Mondays hahaha I feel like I missed out on a billion in the past  This time I ordered a BuSuZhouZhiBa Burger Coke  fries got a free chicken wing and a cone for the new members its beautiful  The fries are really tasty when theyre freshly fried and eaten and this one is very consistent in terms of its output Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds fries  Im a favourite theyre just a little bit salty Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The set menu which is often ordered is just right for small stomachs and is also very tasty Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The shop I always trusted and always chose to eat and drink I can get everything I want here its just perfect for me McDonalds is not a restaurant its a way of life Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The fries are so good I love McDonalds fries Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: mint ambience good service bell service good fries 1290 3piece small coke  small fries  chili burger Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Favourite fries from McDonalds house crispy and delicious Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Coffee is quite good drinkable coffee is quite good coffee is quite good coffee is quite good coffee is quite good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Steady play McMen The overall environment is very good waiters clean up the rubbish in a timely manner out of the meal very quickly cold will also be replaced directly very responsible The location is very convenient and eyecatching to find Next to the Nachelle Collaborative Exhibition Centre City shopping district to eat drink and play all have Suitable for children can also have a McDonalds birthday will have a special layout has the atmosphere Recommended recommended Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The new Poor Mans Meal with that spicy flavour and that strawberry pie is really something Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: I have bought several months of McDonalds breakfast especially costeffective basically every day to eat other places a bread is about 10 yuan McDonalds and a cup of coffee my favourite this plate of scrambled eggs burger I think its very tasty the eggs are also very tender but also recommend the pork tenderloin burger are very good and recently out of the McSpicy Chicken Legs Burger threepiece set of  10 or so stocked up a lot of very good value Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Service Bell ServiceThe waiter was very patient and the food came out quickly Doubledecker planted thick system breakfast meat custard egg wheat full of points Volkswagen review 88 costeffective Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: mint ENVIRONMENT The environment is very nice Its right next to Nescos Tea on Level G of Link Centre City Very good to find service bell service service is also good The waitress lady is very pretty Very gentle Taro Pie is delicious The taro in the middle of the crunchy is especially fragrant Not greasy at all Mes favourite Crispy Bamboo Shoots Roll is very fragrant The bamboo shoots dont stink and its a great combination I love Mai Mais French fries They are crispy I wouldnt say they are soft Ive had them several times and they are the best The price is affordable too Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The setting was great and the hot fries were so good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds was delicious as usual The new products are also very tasty Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Moderate the taste is still good a little better than the other branches hahahaha I forgot to take a picture of the food I ordered Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Popular review is really a good APP the volume purchased online in a small programme directly identified I order on the road and then go to the physical shop to take without two minutes you can get your hands on the doughnuts can be not oil chewy and tough want it Snow Vegetable Crispy Bamboo Shoots Chicken Congee the material is too little looking for chicken in the congee but for the bad appetite of me this congee is also good recommended to buy it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Mint environment has always been a very favourite one decoration style comfort are very good Service bell Service The clerk is busy and will also try as soon as possible to provide friendly service has been quite good Matcha Aphrodite is really specifically to spit on Aphrodite to write a review This one is a kind of incomplete San Shinji The matcha part was a bit disappointing as the hot water for the matcha powder wasnt quite ready and it was poured into the shindig Im going to try the coffee version Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Feeling now McDonalds favourite fort is McShanks and Plate Roasted Chicken Thighs Fort especially Plate Roasted Chicken Thighs Fort the Centre City shop to do the Plate Roasted Casserole is particularly juicy roasted just right black pepper taste is not too McShanks Chicken can also eat out the special taste not dip the material is also tasty There are also McDonalds cones are really costeffective ceiling than now wait for me icecream assassin is too friendly Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: I bought the buy one get one free group buy icecream and ate it with my husband it was very delicious Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Affordable and moderately tasty all pretty good just a little slow to come out Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: woolgathering buy one get one free pie chose pineapple pie and taro puree pie do not know why suddenly chose not like the pineapple pie the moment you eat the regret originally like pineapple just do not like the taste of pineapple pie too long I have not eaten it I forgot or taro puree flavour is delicious sweet and silky texture coupled with the shell of the crunchy if the activities of the red bean pie is very good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: This shop has a lot of people coming and going not a lot of locations business is good great location often have activities or more favourable I hope the business can be more promotional activities we will all continue to pay attention During the summer holidays here near the newly opened bobo pool so McDonalds business is better every time you go is full of people Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Needless to say its not like we havent eaten before Its all standardised Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Bought the American group rolls do not know how to open the little sister is very good to help me from the phone to find the rolls and complete the purchase of the chicken pieces fried relatively dry other okay Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: First of all this set meal is very tasty very large portions fries and coke can not eat the kind the boys should be able to also send a goodlooking glass thoughtful young lady also chose the girls favourite colours and put the bag in the packaging of the evening business is very good in front of the twenty or thirty single the waiter is very busy but are seriously and patiently a part of a good during which time to accept a variety of childrens various needs Kudos Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: At that time off work on the public saw this Tanabata Set because I feel that it is still quite a good deal the meal for two people have a burger chicken legs Coke fries and chicken nuggets really is a very good deal ah but the only drawback is that the air conditioning is too big because the seats are full and then sit under the air conditioning where it is really cold  Other quite good out of the meal is quite fast Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Me What is the meaning of life  To get a whole lot of fries to eat Me No I mean what is the point of living  To get some fries to eat Me Well then give me a dozen Extra large portions McMen forever Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Its the best of the worst The guy who cleans up the rubbish in there is retarded and doesnt understand a word of it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: I came here from work to take a walk I came over to McDonalds and ordered a kspin the lady said there was no icecream today so I had to give up I ordered a snack platter When I got it I felt that the hot wings had been fried for a long time or had been left out for a long time I asked a young guy to help me change them I dont know if they were changed inside but when I got them and ate them they were hard to chew so faggy There was no juice whatsoever Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Often have seen in other platforms have McDonalds offers absolutely absolute son ah family McDonalds often eat rarely seen to get the wool heavy on the cheap It happens to be a big night hungry only McDonalds is open on the run over to eat mint environment the environment is very good the place is very big a set meal a fort  a cup of cola night snacks to get done Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Mint Ambience nice ambience good service McSpicy Chicken Wings French Fries is served quickly and is a good choice for a weekday lunch Suggest all nearby can come to try coupon used is also very cheap and costeffective Service Bell Service good service ordering fast Favourite things McSpicy Chicken Thigh Burger and Fries and McSpicy Chicken Wings are delicious Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Great ambience and superb flavours Especially love the fries here Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: mint environment in the G floor opposite Nai Xue the location is still quite good to find plate grilled chicken thighs burger set meal todays ingredients do not know why seems to be a big difference with the taste of the previous before you can eat the amount of two eat a mouthful of it and then lost Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds is really the gospel of the slum girl every time you go out to play hungry to go to eat McDonalds 139 of the poor set meal a supersized chicken fillet and a taro pie to eat down the night basically can not eat down in so hot weather is certainly to come back to a cone every time to play the cone of the lady is very generous to play ah ah a mouthful of super satisfied Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Quite a lot of space the kids loved it and had a great time eating it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Love to eat McDonalds especially the doubledecker custard every time you must order this time to buy the set meal to send a Coke cup would like to ask if you can change the colour the waitress lady is also very enthusiastic the service is as good as ever love to eat Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Mai Mai Crispy Sauce Chicken Drumsticks Mai Mai Crispy Sauce Chicken Drumsticks are very tasty very juicy I eat them all the time the ambience is very nice and everyone clears the table very quickly Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The fries were crispy and the ice cream was buy one get one free The little granddaughters had a blast Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Delicious cheap like Mobile phones buy house buy car you that place trouble you guys feel you method you can only feel lint didnt why feel trouble send that so many years private send trouble you give you give you mobile phones trouble you give you a few drops elevate the express fee times buy food place trouble you just want to see feedback to drive drive to open the course name of the class well surely fast recovery drive drive fast open the course eat fast food of the location sister thank you sis for looking at the room for the supervisory inspections on the tonight weight loss weight loss police department reliable feedback reference reference Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Very tasty Mai Mai eat it all tomorrow and the environment is still very nice too Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: We recommend the VIP set menu from Dianping which is affordable and quick to prepare Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Beautiful scenery great service very good sundaes very good next time Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The ambience is delicious very good service is very good next time to come again Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The environment is very tasty tasty service is very good next time will come again Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Great flavour great environment great service great next time again Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The environment is very nice and clean the service is very good the food is very good and we will come back next time Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: mint environment shop area is divided into two pieces a dessert area a lot of play can directly sit down and chat on the other side of the main hall air conditioning is really cold service bell service out of the meal quickly eat the feeling similar to fast food service you may need to take the initiative to go to the call of the fourgallon portion is not a set menu mobile phone picture of the more fried potatoes french fries with sweet and sour sauce french fries  give the ketchup  recommend buy one get one free McSwirl an Oreo and a strawberry  flavour taste are very tasty McMac fun chicken balls compared to the chicken rice balls smaller taste is not quite the same but the taste is very tasty Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The food comes out fast the environment is very nice and the service is good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The shop is very nice the food is delicious and comes out fast Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Mint Environment This McDonalds is a very old shop in the Link Exhibition Centre City I remember when there was the Centre City they were the first to move in there are more than 10 years right Its located at Exit b of the Convention and Exhibition Centre Station on Metro Line 1 and Line 4 and is connected to Level G west of the Link Centre City without having to go out of the ground level There are indoor and semioutdoor seats Pork Tenderloin McMuffin is the one Im used to eating and Ive had it many times Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: McDonalds was great as always and the service at the Link Centre shop was superb Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: service bell service very good service attitude mint environment beautiful environment full of lights  dishes the Big Mac is as delicious as ever  fries are crispy  McSpicy Chicken Wings favourite la I finally got my hands on the coke cup I wanted the most  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The service of the shop assistant is really sweet I ordered the set meal on the phone to do ice cream to the front desk exchange the lady very patiently said that the place to order food on the other side of the place only sells ice cream but also a huge sweet personally lead the way to lead me over too warm hearted mint environment the environment is very good wooden seats plus warm light shop dining is very comfortable Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: Still a familiar flavour the joy of the day is in place Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The service was excellent Laid out in a specialised tasting environment A shop I would hit again Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The kids birthday party was so much fun with little hats and ice creams  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Zhuoyue City) Comments: The birthday party was a great time with toys mini dishes and the kids had fun Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: The food was fresh and tasty the service in the restaurant was efficient and the restaurant was cosy and clean Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: The waitresses were great You can eat without queuing during peak hours The ingredients in the restaurant were fresh and tasty Ice cream is sweet but not greasy McSpicy chicken wings had normal texture Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Group purchase is more favourable the best choice for shopping and resting and the environment is also comfortable Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Unbeatably tasty great brand super tasty great value for money highly recommended to queue for a while on a weekday Ingredients are super fresh The location of the restaurant is easy to find Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Its next to the Golden Cinema in Central City opposite Nesco and its easy to find with more comfortable tables and chairs and quick ordering and delivery Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: mint environment location in the tie exhibition centre city G floor environment clean taste wheat spicy chicken wings this is the most delicious things mai mai double cheeseburger poor set meal of the god plate grilled chicken leg burger delicious no burden is recommended to eat eat look overall mai mai really very good is very suitable for everyone to go to the noon to eat eat look hahahaha Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Out shopping with friends take me to eat McDonalds  this group buy is too costeffective buy this package for one person cool find a corner to rest waiting for the time can also pp picture out of the meal too fast do not give the opportunity to p finished hahaha by the way the threepiece set is less than 20 there are burgers fries and drinks this is very much to buy through Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Weekend queues are moderate The restaurant is moderately priced The Oreo McSwirl is amazing The icecold milkshake hides a superb amount of crushed Oreos and each bite is a perfect collision of sweetness and crunch The delicate ice cream and crispy crushed biscuits intertwine to create a wonderful texture that is sweet but not greasy and refreshingly cool to relieve the summer heat Definitely a little summer treat that makes it hard to resist another cup  Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: McDonalds had the burger  It genuinely tasted like my favourite flavour Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: I went there in the afternoon not at dinner time Bread fluffiness general but taste basic online point 1 1 package mainly stomach want to find familiar taste Lead me in which city are a little bit want to card McDonalds first floor view is good the autumn of Beiping is gradually thick go on the road is also the ginkgo biloba a place accidentally will be the autumn colours in the bag a small happy Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: The service attitude is very good the environment is also very good recommended recommended recommended recommended Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: This shop I usually like to come here to rest order a french fries Coke and so on the environment is very good suitable for waiting for people and so on the location is also OKTasteTaste okaymintEnvironmentThe environment is fantasticservice bellServiceThe service has nothing to say full marksPrice Costeffective can be and there are often activities Full marks Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: No queues at this shop on weekdays The food comes out quickly and the ambience is superb Ness Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: The service was excellent and the environment was clean and tidy The food is fast accurate and the meals are fresh A necessary canteen for workers in the neighbourhood Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: It was very tasty and the decor of the McMen yyds shop was superb The flavours of the restaurant are authentic and authentic Ice cream is super smooth Taro pie was normal sweetness Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: The environment is clean and tidy the waiters service attitude is very good the food is very fast ah Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Burger  meaty tasty well seasoned great staff Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: This Round Up Cone ice cream is no less cost effective than Snow Kings The creamy flavour feels much stronger Also the big brand day grabbing pennys is really good value so if you like to stay up late dont miss it yo Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: The location is right in the centre of the exhibition centre with a big signboard and frontage that is easy to find There is a large car park is very convenient Mint environment McDonalds style decoration shop is quite large the environment is spacious and comfortable clean and hygienic the evening dinner point to go to the scene is empty we wrapped up the scene service bell service waiter attitude is quite good The order for the burger meal was pretty quick Fries Angus MAX thick beef bacon burger Double cheeseburger Vegetarian Bastard Double Beef Burger Bacon Vegetable Extract Double Beef Burger Chicken McNuggets 5 pieces Cylinder Newcomers Gift in the public praise and McDonalds software are ordered a few hamburger packages the taste is not bad the portion size is the same the price of the packages are each different but so how to order will be compared to the site to buy a little bit more costeffective Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: The restaurant environment is good very large spacious and bright The decoration is simple and atmospheric many people come often launch promotional activities and new products the most like to eat chicken wings a little spicy the outside is very crispy meat is very tender ah Ive been coming here a lot lately Here the waiter can be good very polite very friendly I like to come here to eat some snacks laze around very comfortable Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Mint Ambience McSpicy Chicken Wings McMac Crispy Sauce Chicken Pipa Legs Favourite McDonalds Fried Chicken Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: The service is very good and attentive and the environment is very clean Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: mint environment really a lot of people ah taste recommended spicy burger is very tasty Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: McDonalds devotees gather When a McDonalds lover doesnt know what to eat his first choice is McDonalds fries especially the freshly fried fries Just thinking about it makes my mouth water and Im so happy to have fries when Im hungry The Choco Chocolate Flavour Triangle Pie is very rich in chocolate The crunchy crust is covered with a rich chocolate sauce Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Ive been eating at McDonalds for breakfast since I got here and sometimes for lunch Recently Ive been eating the Poor Mans Breakfast Set and its so good The custard egg McMuffin breakfast custard egg without ketchup snack hash browns for grilled sausage to the company after the grilled sausage assembled into the burger is not too delicious Its not as salty as the egg with pork tenderloin and the sausage has a juicy texture and with the sliced cheese and egg and a little bit of McNuggets sauce its not tasteless and not very snoozy I really want to eat this every day with my monthly subscription  mainly because its less than 10 for a 3piece set or a large coffee  its not too bad Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Taste good as always mint Ambience quite a big one with indoor as well as outdoor service bell Service served quickly McSpicy Chicken Wings Fries Dry Cocoa McSwirl Cone Ice Cream Plate Roasted Chicken Thigh Burger Crispy Potato Fritters Jumbo Burger So Big Chicken Fillet Mai Mai Crispy Juicy Chicken Sleeve Strawberry Shindy Mai Spice Fish Crispy MultiBamboo Shoots Wrap Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: New to try overall good recommend to try Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: I dont know what to eat when you can brainless McDonalds Center City this shop is very big place a lot of places there are also takeout next to the cinema to try the big meatballs burger to be honest burgers are getting smaller and smaller nowadays to eat one is not enough hahaha meatballs three is not very big slightly salty surprise is that the inside of the white cheese is actually a slice of cheese feel more than the kind of yellow cheese that the taste of the creamy more full Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: On the negative 1 floor of the Link Mall Centre selfservice ordering and fast food delivery Mint EnvironmentThe environment is clean and tidy and there are quite a lot of tables Service Bell ServiceThe service attitude is very good but shouting to get something is not timely enough Flavours McSpicy Chicken Wings French Fries Angus MAX Thick Beef Bacon Burger Pepper Salt Golden Crisp Chicken Wings eaten a few times good reviews Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: It was packed and waited a long time for my meal Everything is freshly fried and generally ok Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Mai Mai really is always God Its super yummy I love it I hope that kind of fried burger will come out again Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: How does it tasteThe answer is fairly simple its a thousand McDonalds flavours Taste7mintAmbience6service bellService7Value for money7 Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Why doesnt everyones favourite burger drink soda Is it cold because Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: The location is easy to find I tried this new muesli flavour Taro Mochi Muesli and it was quite good Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: McSwirl will always be my favourite at McDonalds and its a great deal to buy two Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Great ambience very fast food and great flavours Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Fries  super yummy hot and spicy is the best great Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: The location was easy to find and fast and the air conditioning was cool enough Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Wheres the other half of the cheese slice Just stuck it all on the box for me And the coke wasnt even full Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Its not bad its quite close to the company and its quite convenient to have a set meal every now and then Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: The taste is very good this ice cream has a milky flavour very rich delicious delicious especially comfortable to eat in the summer time and then the environment of this shop is very good the service attitude is also good Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: mint environment just in the bottom layer or very good to find both sides have additional separate small card sitting lunch time still need to wait a little bit location Service Bell Service as always the speed of food preparation Flavour for girls the Big Mac is really really good enough to eat Value for moneyBuy the set meal is still a good deal once a week double the pleasure Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Mint environment the environment is not bad the location is in the Collage Centre it is very convenient indoor and outdoor can sit the place is also quite big Often come over to eat more convenient Service Bell Service The service is okay but sometimes its not very timely to receive the table when there are too many people The Big Mac Burger will buy some special set meals from time to time which is quite good The taste is also okay and the food is very good Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Burger yummy McDonalds forever God yummy love it like it Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Whenever you dont know what to eat McDonalds is always the best choice several times a day is a loyal fan of the favourite fries ice cream plate roast chicken burger is the only choice almost forgot there is also oatmeal milk iron every day is essential since I drank the McDonalds coffee and never tried another Central City this is the place that I was the first in addition to the environment and the service is impeccable every day to see a familiar face is also a kind of comfort right Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: A must for a simple everyday meal quick and efficient Tastes great all year round nothing to comment on clean environment and from time to time a smell of sterilised water Its the price increases over the years that have gone up a bit high much higher than KFCs price increases Occasionally you can meet one or two service enthusiastic staff to introduce you Help you to combine a discount did not meet if you can only highpriced simple food Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: McDonalds delicious delivery classic burger every bite is super satisfying fast service clean environment worthy of five stars Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Recently Mai Mai had an event with cone ice cream at 2rpc matcha soya milk pieapple pie at 35rpc and some burger sets as well I heard about the new Banana Flavoured Cone Ice Cream and it just so happens that I havent had it yet and even though the online reviews dont seem to be too good I still wanted to give it a try It was almost exactly the same as what was described on the internet It was banana flavoured but not banana flavoured it felt a bit like banana milk flavouring so those who like banana milk would like it but I personally prefer the pure milky flavour of the original ice cream to the banana milk flavour The Apple Pie is also something I havent had before and the reviews on the internet are quite polarised I think its because of the cinnamon flavour in it I personally love cinnamon flavour but Ive only had cinnamon flavoured cakes and breads before This pie inside the cinnamon flavour and the cake bread is still some difference this feeling is very subtle do not know how to describe the overall apple pie cinnamon flavour is still very strong sweetness personal feeling is not particularly high not as easy as chocolate pie greasy of course the sense of satisfaction is also almost but this kind of cinnamon personal feeling 188 no merit no fault Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: mint environment the environment is okay service bell service moderate Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Angus MAX Thick Beef Bacon Burger Super authentic beef bacon burger one bite full of beef Spicy Chicken Wings with Wheat is a classic among the classics you cant go wrong with it every time although its a little bit spicy but I really love it Taro Pie dessert is of course taro pie thick taro flavour comes out one bite of burst juice love love love Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: The new Banana  Cone is meltinyourmouth soft sweet and delicious Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: I found that the shop manager does not know how to operate stingy dead every takeaway a paper towel in addition to yesterday to buy 2 Fort  fries  pie  Coke actually loaded together Its not a good idea to buy 2 burgers  fries  pie  coke yesterday and pack them together Besides the fries are packed in a way that the fries are scattered what kind of shop manager is he Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: mint environment the smell of grease is too heavy the air is not good service bell service not much service the hall attendant can not be seen Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Come to Shenzhen to try McDonalds 2 yuan of banana  ice cream  M record a lot of different flavours of ice cream  Matcha  Cherry Blossom  Strawberry  and so on now out of the banana can be a dualflavour always feel that still the original flavour is the most pure where the wheat chicken thighs  burger salsa are so little Karma fries  fried home so yellow Karma salty taste is strong enough to have salt in every mouth I love the salty  sweet ice and fire sense of the most head of dog Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Dessert Centre is under renovation but in normal business this one feels that the speed of food is slower than others Angus thick beef burger does not look so appetising and sells in general The environment will not be reviewed and the service was okay Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Eat an icecream and I said hygiene to do over there I did not give you a recording your leadership can go to hang monitoring to see it this time Wont speak properly help order a meal and I said to go over there to do their own inspection their own inspection on their own inspection Im not sure if youre going to be able to get me to do that but Im not going to be able to get you to do that Im not going to be able to get you to do that Im not going to be able to get you to do that Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Its a nice place with a good environment and quite crowded Often go to eat Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: To be honest a sentence Hong Kong people come to left is the best Karma identification according to the problem is that Hong Kong people are  people on the food they often eat can only prove one thing is that Hong Kong sells a lot of good food and especially breakfast portions enough nutrients and also is our mainland no ga models it is time to Update not only the food itself and also have a paradise toys compared to the past and now the pioneering nature of the total paralysis If the word look is good at least Ill pay for the left good look but the truth is that its good look Ive been a fan of McDonalds since I was a kid but Ikea is really a bit of a pain in the neck Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: In the morning there are a lot of people a lot of orders the clerk is still very nice and the product is organised Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: The flavour is still online but since it doesnt come out online dont suggest that the meal preparation is complete leaving people to go to the front desk and wait empty Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: I bought the set meal the chicken wings were battered and cold and the fries that I added later were also cold or that kind of trimmings really spit it out Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Its been a long time since Ive eaten at Mai Mai and it just so happens that Mai Mai has recently put a lot of old classics and delicious flavours back on the table so I immediately came over for the Twisted Fries and Plate Roasted Chicken Thigh Burger The location of this shop is wrong on the Golder map luckily I saw the big M at the entrance in advance or else I would really have to go the wrong way Twisted Fries is superb except for being slightly salty they are all very good Ordered two at a time and clunked them Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: 99 of the McCafe and pull flowers very surprised  but the concentration is a little shrinkage feel less a concentrated this or breakfast card benefits you can buy two orders a day is very costeffective a month effective environment is good a lot of locations it is easy to find an empty seat to sit down right in the Centre City mall the location is convenient and easy to find Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Good value for money with the comeasyouare package a burger and a coke Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: French fries fries every time you eat are freshly fried very fragrant with ketchup even more delicious Taro Pie every time you come than order Strawberry Xindi super tasty sweet flavour is good kudos mint environment the environment is beautiful and cool location is spacious and bright service bell service the service is also very good Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Try it when you really cant think of anything to eat Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Come over to Futian to do business the first choice is still McDonalds fast and convenient Mint Environment but the environment is average the tables are sticky and the wireless charging is just for show But at least the quality is strictly controlled and the customised beef burger is delicious Open back kitchen you can directly see the live production the back kitchen environment is clean and tidy service bell Service the service is pretty good too the food comes out super fast its the fastest restaurant Ive ever seen food come out Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: McDonalds is the place to go if you cant think of anything to eat and its in a spacious location Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Love coming to this McDonalds the seating is great Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: This McDonalds has a big portion of fries well well well Anyone taking out is advised to open it up at the counter first and check check check If its a little less its acceptable but this is the size of the fries who can accept it Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: So many people in Centre City over the weekend McDonalds was full this one was actually quite big The chicken nuggets have been fried for too long and the fries are still good  I came here for the new honey wings but they are not as good as the previous one a bit sweet not baked well enough and not dry enough and the chicken thighs are even more mediocre hahaha Eat whatever you want Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Guangming Culture and Art Centre) Comments: Mai Mai is right at the Link Centre City1st floor good location and not small in size Service Bell Service The service is still good busy but not chaotic during the morning rush hour Double Layer Original Plate Roasted Chicken Legs Mak Mak Distributed Crispy Potato Cakes Plate Roast is always so classic and delicious with muffins its really yummy  Soya Bean Milk and Potato Cakes with it is also a good choice Area: Guangming
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Location is quite convenient space a lot of people almost can not see the waiter perhaps too busy Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: When you come to the Convention and Exhibition Centre MTR station you have to go to the McDonalds in Central City if you want to eat crispy potato pancakes Breakfast is served until 1030am so I was lucky to be able to place my order on the MTR before the main meal I thought I could get my meal when I arrived but I still had to wait the staff said the chicken steak was being prepared It took more than 20 minutes from placing the order to getting the food which is a bit inefficient Maybe there were not enough staffs on that day but it doesnt matter the most important thing is the food The design of the Crispy Chicken Steak McMuffin is a bit strange the chicken steak is crispy but the McMuffin is a bit hard to bite which is fine for me but the elderly may not be able to bite it and have to eat congee The crispy potato cake is crispy in the mouth just like the past attraction it would be better if it can be bigger in size A sip of hot coffee gives you strength for life The environment of the shop is very clean the location is quite large and the staff is very courteous Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: mint environment very good very comfortable service bell service the service is also quite good out of the meal very quickly a mortal set meal one to eat completely enough Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: not vegetarian bully double layer beef burger new limited time only ten dollars to what bike ah bite like a sausage mouth smiley face strange scary to taste it how to say it in the middle of the road is mediocre overall taste is on the side of dry bar kind of not much taste in the price of so beautiful on the basis of the I understand the thin skin caramel V wings this should be quite a test of skill it after all the new product can be retraining training to the table when the meat are fried old with a The time and heat is not so in place watermelon popping beads flavour wheat whirlwind seldom use evil to describe a dessert pointing with a beautiful mood after stirring to eat to sweet snore me a heel OMG Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Out for some afternoon tea and touch of fish with my colleagues this afternoon Recently there is an event not vegetarian of the bar 10 yuan beef juicy In addition to buy a box of 10 sharks fin with two cups of cola only 399 also very costeffective Inside the shop in the afternoon is not particularly many people at least there are seats to sit close to the inner end of the mall it is slightly hot There is also a selfservice ordering machine at the entrance which is very convenient Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Work meals McDonalds constant companion consistent delivery and excellent quality Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds home children simply every week to clamour to eat can not understand the fries so delicious it hahaha every day called the fries but McDonalds fries is indeed eaten inside the best although the fire will be hot but still can not resist his temptation ahhahahahaha the next time to try the hamburger punch Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The chicken wings are delicious and its crowded on weekends Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: I feel like the chicken fillets arent as good as they used to be its like theyre getting smaller in size  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Fast food location is easy to find Convention and Exhibition Centre metro station Liancheng Xintiandi walk for a while or leading the exhibition of the west side of the door can be to the clerk attitude are also very good seating a lot of Mai Mai crispy chicken super delicious  every time you crave for fried chicken or something to eat crispy chicken  chicken thighs to choose the legs of the chicken Personally I feel that the chicken breast is a little bit too fatty Recently there is also free chicken in crispy sauce on Monday The wool can be gripped Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds position in the menu selection should be in addition to KFC can not be out of its right in the hot summer without appetite choose a McSpicy Chicken Leg Castle set simply save all kinds of no appetite with a full of ice cola a bite into the soul heat relief The beauty is that there is no place to recharge otherwise it is a good choice to come here for afternoon tea Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: As a Hong Kong resident we always try out the cheap and delicious McDonalds food at McDonalds Shenzhen This time I visited McDonalds during the Dragon Boat Festival McDonalds was offering 20 for 10 pieces of chicken nuggets and 10 for 10 pieces of chicken nuggets I chose the 10 chicken nuggets to enjoy first Chicken nuggets should be served with sauce so I ordered 3 boxes of Honey Mustard Sauce a flavour not available in Hong Kong with less volume of sauce than the Hong Kong ones but at a cheaper price I also chose the Coarse French Fries which are not available in Hong Kong and they are bigger in size and have a stronger potato flavour The 1350 Double Choice Set Meal is even more affordable with a choice of a double cheeseburger with soda chicken nuggets and curly fries on top its really a filling and cheap meal Last but not least the packaging of McDonalds is very attractive just like the box with chicken nuggets it is a limited edition with eyecatching design All in all McDonalds Shenzhen has a very good priceperformance ratio and even Hong Kong people should go there for a meal Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Children like the happy paradise meal toys are Doraemon cod and classic burgers are very tasty children like to eat quite happy the shop is quite large divided into two areas Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: This McDonalds in the collar exhibition Centre City on the ground floor Oh a lot of seats Oh very much like to eat their family plate burning chicken thighs Castle and spicy chicken thighs Castle these two flavours are very tasty put the burning chicken thighs Casserole is not spicy spicy chicken thighs Castles chicken is deepfried slightly a little bit of spicy Oh they often have activities Oh quite costeffective Oh out of the meal is also very fast Oh Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The environment is good breakfast hash browns taste ok just a bit small plate roasted chicken leg burger is good soya milk is ok Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Maks Spicy Chicken Wings wings are good Fries summer fries are kids favourite Chicken Leg Burger one burger is full Taro Pie Strawberry Sundae delicious Crispy Potato Pie crispy Crispy Cocoa McMuffin Angus MAX Thick Beef Bacon Burger Mak Maks Crispy Chicken Pipa Thighs Cheesy Angus Thick Beef Burger Sleeve recommendable Mint Ambience quite good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: There are several choices of Old Maks near Futian High Speed Rail Station this time I came from Convention and Exhibition Centre Station so this one is the most convenient The black coffee tastes good the omelette and hash browns are fresh and the ambience is nice so Im quite satisfied Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds Family Bucket is full of flavour and happiness The golden fried chicken is crispy and delicious the spicy fries are crispy on the outside and tender on the inside and with refreshing drinks it satisfies the taste buds of the whole family Whether its a family gathering or a gathering of friends the Family Bucket is a great choice for a fun time Recommend packing this for picnics Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Love the cone ice cream so much yummy  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds is what it is A favourite of mine for many many years If you dont know what to eat just eat Old Mac Double McFish is the cure for all my sad moments with its many sauces Everything can be solved by the double layer of McFish spicy wings are also very good fries ah is sometimes too much salt sprinkled salty sometimes no taste of each shop clerk mood varies in general fries is a suggestion can be improved ah because often packaged packaged to eat when they are not in the shop or else certainly want to change Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The recent McDonalds packaging is super nice  also with 10 yuan 10 pieces of McNuggets of chicken activities and  2 yuan have stacked dragon boat Yong Ai Mai Men Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Very tasty worthy of the old brand ah is great playing workers exclusive haha like to eat a burger can try Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Address Located in Line 1 and Line 4 of the Convention and Exhibition Centre Station Exit C B1 level next door to a Jin Yi International Cinema Cinema very good to find out the meal very quickly the service attitude is very good selfservice scanning code or to the selfservice machine ordering eat next door to the cinema can be seen by the way to see the film or stroll around Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: This McDonalds is the dirtiest and worst experience Ive ever had smelly dirty and full of mosquitoes Ahh Centre City is really not a place to go its getting worse and worse Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds Shenzhen new product Sultan King Durian Fruit Meat Xindi 265 immediately get a first look bought a cup to taste durian flavour is strong with soft ice cream perfect match yes Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: One grain of chicken McNuggets is too much for you Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The shop is not small both entrances can enter but only close to the ordering area this side of the air conditioning is strong the back half is still quite hot Everyone is used to mobile phone ordering there is still a selfservice ordering machine may be for those who only have a phone watch to pay for the preparation of the children weekend to see a lot of students in the small girlfriends chatting while eating Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The taste is delicious and at a glance let people feel very appetising but the portion is not large so friends with a large stomach capacity can order more the dishes are also very fresh the taste of salty and light and the fire is mastered just right the speed of the food is fast not long after the point of the meal out of the meal out of the meal is efficient the summer comes to eat is very comfortable cold air recommend friends to this M record Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Ice cream  delicious give this bad review because of the service attitude bad review this dessert station has been no one it is written above the normal business temporarily leave need service bell the results of the seven or eight minutes past or no one thinking is not to WeChat scanning code ordering bell the results of the press is still no one and then seven or eight minutes past and then came to an aunt I told her that the bell is not bad I told her that the bell is not bad waiting for ten minutes have not responded the aunt is not slow to say what is urgent and will not be less of you that attitude can be imagined how bad I instantly speechless I said I have not seen the point of an ice cream to wait for seventeen or eighteen minutes the focus is still not to queue up the aunt not only do not reflect on their own but also feel that they are right I really hope that the boss to change it or really no guests dare to go not to mention repeat business a serious bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation bad evaluation Im sorry Im sorry Im sorry Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Not bad a simple bite for a work meal too many people on the weekends to make room for it but overall the flavour was good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: At the underground entrance near the convention centre I took a lunch break and ordered a doubledecker burger and black tea the burger was beef patty with egg and a sandwich layer The black tea was particularly fragrant and tasty and although it was made from tea bags it was hot Its especially good for a girl with a cold like me love love love it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Do not know what to eat when will choose McDonalds la the location is particularly good to find very conspicuous the site is not a lot of people even if it is the weekend to go there is also a place to sit pick up the food time is particularly short on the meal very quickly Service attitude is not bad McDonalds quality control is very stable the site environment is also quite good very clean very comfortable not noisy Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Suddenly I realised that I hadnt written a review for McDonalds which I grew up eating McDonalds is really my favourite restaurant bar none Whenever people ask me what Im eating its the first thing that comes out of my mouth From when I was a kid I would always order the childrens set meal and now I would always choose the McSpicy Chicken Leg Burger as long as its a burger and the flavour hasnt really changed much But I have to say that the quality of the portion is really more and more mini think of the previous McSpicy Chicken Thigh Castle that piece of meat and thick and big there is juice it really brings back memories Now every time I eat it its faggy and thin and this one I hope will really be properly restored back to what it used to be I have complaints about it but still love it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds which is loved by both men and women of all ages is not only delicious and affordable but also has a lot of activities which is really perfect for working people Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Never had such a perfunctory American and plain water like the burgers plate of chicken is only a small half  when McDonalds is so outrageous  really is speechless Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds breakfast often ordered before work directly ordered to bring the company to colleagues with also convenient the exhibition of this mm was I stepped flat almost hahaha Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Occasionally a month is once or twice will not hate the thing every time will order ice cream is very good taro pie is also a favourite Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The group had a fish and chips set menu the portion was just right and the location was easy to find Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Its located at The Link Centre City easy to find lots of seats very comfortable shop I came here to take a break and just ordered ice cream  it was delicious and smooth enough And the music is so healing Its a very clean and simple place to eat fast food No odour Its conveniently located at the metro station Lots of good shops and eateries nearby Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The freshly fried fries were delicious  although travelling with a cold was hard The shop was very welcoming The manager and the staff are very polite Eating something familiar is also a little bit of comfort Its not hard to find the place Rarely does McDonalds play KPOPits an amazing feeling Luckily this McDonalds in Centre City is still around Hang in there come on Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds burgers  good  good  good  Perfect  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The ice cream guy made a very small hollow Poor review Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: 9 9 of the McCafe is not bad ah  to be stronger than the small blue cup to be a drop concentrated to give enough to drink than expected a lot of rich nutty breath is obvious that the overall than the previous to be a lot of progress mobile phone ordering is very convenient but also to adjust the amount of ice pouring is surprised at the environment is comfortable especially sofa position after dinner a cup of coffee is still very comfortable Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The McDonalds Double Angus Thick Beef Burger has become almost a standard dinner for both of us at the movies Its better than even the KFC Burger King Thick Beef Burger Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Love McDonalds breakfast So yummy  Love the ham ones so much Its super cheap and super satisfying in the morning to start an energetic day Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: A penny McDonalds cone that tastes the way it did before is the best cone ever Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: My company then in the vicinity of this shop often nothing to come over to eat a cone ah eat a hamburger what ah and so on is also very relaxing ah basically come here to drink a cup of coffee ah ah and then play with the mobile phone ah are very good the service attitude is also as good as ever ah and then the activities of McDonalds is still a lot of Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Ive been longing for McDonalds to finally satisfy myself and Ive always felt that McDonalds chicken wings would be more delicious its fried very crispy and tender very fragrant Ive been enjoying it and Ive been wanting to eat it lately but I havent realised it yet so Im just bored today so Im going to give myself a chance to arrange for it Recommendation McSpicy Chicken Wings Angus MAX Thick Beef Bacon Burger Cheese Angus Thick Beef Burger Set Italian Balsamic Barbecue Flavour Angus Thick Beef Burger can can can Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: First time I had McDonalds plate roasted chicken thigh burger set  rarely eat kfc and McDonalds tasted pretty good peppery sauce flavour  love the McDonalds fries were great Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McMen The double custard burger is just my favourite As soon as I smelled the aroma emanating from the Double Cheese my stomach suddenly got 23 times bigger The double cheese  brings a hint of salty flavour  that double layer of solid beef is unbeatably satisfying with every bite And my favourite pickle It really goes perfectly with the burger Loved loved loved it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Its the last day of the punch card event so go and punch in to win peripherals with phone holders phone pouches sticky notes small notebooks and breakfast for 15 buy one get one free Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Shenzhen shopperMcDonalds McDonalds McDonalds believers for the first time in this McDonalds to eat the shop inside the location is quite a lot of vanilla is so sweet ah 14 yuan 1  1 poor peoples set meal suitable for use as afternoon tea Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds cones there is an event 29 ten you can redeem three at a time McDonalds cones feel pretty good both tasty and cheap Even if there is no event the price is not expensive Recently the weather is too hot so having a cone is a great relief from the heat Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The burgers were really very good I didnt get enough of one and had another one Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Vernal Equinox buy one get one free to eat a Mai Mai breakfast  I grew up to love eating M record today specially come over to clock the event  buy one get one free breakfast online to redeem  offline three packages  coffee  mint environment the environment is good the space is very large Oh and the lighting is very suitable  service bell service because of the event so a lot of people the service is average ask bathroom  where is very impatient double plate grilled crispy chicken steak McMuffin oatmeal milk iron the good thing is that McMuffin is a hot mouth milk iron is also good drink Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: In this side of the shopping come over to order a McSpicy chicken wings in the middle of the things left here the evening just remembered thanks to the waiter to help put away I called the errand boy to get back Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Clicky Crispy Chicken Thigh Burger Forever Pure Dollar  Its a black pepper flavoured nonspicy burger with lots of juicy chicken thighs served with peanut butter sauce and side dishes galore So when it returns I just say Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Ha ha ha ha see McDonalds need to come to shop a little I would have to pack my foodie neighbours have to eat before going home well Kaka a meal point she likes what I like to order are happy ah today is another day to support the head of the day anyway just point are delicious Good service good environment see you next time and go home with fruits Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: And friends busy at night in the Royal Court finished after many shops are closed hungry to dizziness we finally was saved by McDonalds thank you there are 24 hours of McDonalds fortunately from us on more than 400 metres although the shop navigation past a little less easy to find probably because of the energy is too low to lose a sense of direction so go a lot of wrong way but still thank you for a place to stay with us Clean and tidy environment people of all colours come and go you come or do not come it is there quiet not sad or happy We ordered a small bucket for two and as usual the food was nothing spectacular all fried food with no nutrition but it was still OK We found some new products so lets try them next time Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Its very tasty its really a warm dining hall for the workers who are fighting Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: This mkees produce is not good every time Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: This is one of my most frequented McDonalds located on the ground floor of Link Centre City in the central district of Futian I like to come here because its relatively quiet on weekends around office buildings Young masters can also read and write here After breakfast you can take a stroll in the park at the back and go back to Centre City when you are hungry Lately the stays have been shorter because Im afraid of the crowds Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Arranging for Mai Mai Lots of great deals lately Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The environment is great the coffee looks and tastes great the new rolls are delicious and overall its pretty good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Selfordering members have discounts Seats are scarce on holidays when its crowded Chicken McNuggets is not as good as before Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: For me McDonalds is the existence of indulgence yes such as craving thin hungry unhappy to a pair of chicken wings not two pairs to clear all the unhappy have been thinking about its breakfast pork tenderloin egg McMuffin full of points is too tasty and the coffee is also good what on earth are the beans If the company does not have breakfast is really to eat McDonalds every day Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The ambience is great its my kind of place the food is great Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Often ordered to eat in the car commute on the road to solve the dinner random order does not step on the mine Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Ive been coming over for lunch on occasion and the set menu Ive been ordering a lot lately is the Angus Bacon Back Beef Burger which requires a little bit of advancement because the beef is freshly fried and if you arrive at the shop and order it again you may have to wait five to ten minutes but this burger is so good it has surpassed the Big Mac as a favourite McDonalds is truly a place where you cant go wrong with anything Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Ive always wondered about double cheeseburgers and why McDonalds just tastes better than Burger Kings beef patties when its the same patty made from ground beef I stopped by for two double cheeseburgers on New Years Eve This double cheeseburger feels like the best value for money in McDonalds and it has relatively soft slices of bread Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The taste is very good and the service sensation is very good all have a positive response and answer my questions Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The worst service ever encountered I placed an order for two McSwirls 15 buy one get one free on the applet at 2150 when I arrived at the shop to pick up my order the clerk informed me that he would not be allowed to pick up the food saying that there was no dispensing code after my order was completed and told me that I would be refunded automatically and asked to purchase it in the form of a second halfprice at the shop 2250 At the same time when I was ordering from the selfservice ordering machine in the shop the clerk had a very When I ordered at the selfservice kiosk the clerk told me in a very general manner that the kiosk could not be used for ordering food and that I could only order manually But at that time I just didnt want to bother others to help me write off my coupon and I ended up completing my order at the selfservice ordering machine myself Later I went to ask the clerk if I had completed my order on the applet so I should be able to enjoy the buy one get one free offer and the clerk informed me that the applet system had been shut down and it couldnt accept my order but the page of my order showed that my booking was successful again I found the customer service of McDonalds but the customer service only promised 23 working days to me to solve the problem and finally was added to the McDonalds manager of the enterprise WeChat to be able to solve the problem and at the beginning of the statement that my order will not have a matching code but also with the beginning of the statement is not consistent So I have to suspect that the employee privately use discounts require customers to manually order offline operation from which to earn the difference in price or else why should I be told that the selfservice ordering machine can not be ordering food and I Why else would you tell me that the selfservice ordering machine cant order food when I successfully ordered food and tell me that a successful reservation without a food code equals that the restaurant didnt receive my order and told me at the beginning that I wont be able to order food with a food code but I was able to order food again at 2240 or so Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The ambience is great and theres a lot of food I come every day and its really quite good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Its all my favourite food and the ambience is very nice its worth coming back more often Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The environment is good and the food is delicious we recommend you to come and try it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: mint environment very good to find the place also has a selfservice ordering machine is very convenient is slightly less seats sometimes have to wait for a seat Service Bell ServiceNot bad the closing is quite timely My favourites are the doubledecker custard and the notsovegetarian bar In fact every McDonalds will taste a little different this one produces very consistent good review Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Ive already tried using the McDonalds app to order cheaper than the Dianping set meal voucher I used 235 last time to order a double decker beef cheeseburger  plus a taro batch  135 plus a cup of McCafe latte 99 this time in the Dianping to buy a voucher for 199 for a single decker beef burger with corn and a cup of black tea but I dont like black tea so it didnt work for me and its just a The single layer beef is too thin for me to use the review coupon Its better to order on the app Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The Original Plate Roasted Chicken Thigh Burger is so good its infinitely repurchased Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Great service and the beautiful sister was very attentive and considerate Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Great a must for hitting the workers breakfast Its a great deal Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: So Big Chicken Fillet is very tasty grabbed the American Tuans roll and got it for 2 bucks Super Big Chicken Fillet with juicy meat McMac Crispy Chicken Legs McDonalds McMac Crispy Chicken  Pipa Legs a 307kcal 130g Protein 26 198g Fat 56 189g Carbohydrates 18 140g Chicken in McMac Crispy Juice Yummy Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The McDonalds over here is nice and clean and the food is great Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The environment is beautiful and the food is good the service is very good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Its very good Ive been here many times The cafeteria downstairs in cbd Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Its great I feel good about eating here Ill come back next time Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds from small to large this side of this also open count quite a long time before the whole day over to our home to eat the most favourite drink their milkshake has not but their McFish is still very tasty and often the children will come over to buy here to sell to buy the McWhirl icecream and sometimes there is a halfprice quite good childhood memories are here quite good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: In the collar exhibition centre g floor next to Nai Xue a little difficult to find from the underground exit out probably have to be 500 metres to the newly launched 10 yuan twopiece set crispy juice chicken legs with Coke and then ordered 139 of the poor mans set of double cheese with a mini sundae yyds and again a simple meal peak time the whole restaurant are people should be all the nearby office workers the Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: When youre hungry McDonalds is all about aspect and consistent quality Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Affordable easy to order and lots of new products that taste great Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The service was quick and the food was of good quality Will eat again next time Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The free McSwirl with any purchase that I received from paypal was so good So delicious Then order a poor mans set meal for workers just right I chose the Chicken McMuffin Burger first time its also very good and the Taro Pie every time I choose it its too good value for money A lunch 139 to solve And very full eat also satisfied Love McDonalds as always Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The fries  were crispy and the burger was delicious  its my favourite  mint Ambiencemint Environment very good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: This coffee barista pull flower has been good sometimes go to other homes will not pull taste will really be different environment is also good service is also good recommended recommended Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The environment is clean and hygienic the staff service is patient and attentive and the meals are fresh and tasty Recommended Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Loved from a young age no child can resist Mai Mai right Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: 11 is really awesome mint EnvironmentMcMenamins are not service bell ServiceService is just like that Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: I love this breakfast so much that I have to buy one every day when I go to the office Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Hygiene is a bit slow when its crowded the speed of food could be improved but otherwise its fine Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Convenient fast comfortable environment easy and quick to pick up and order Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: It was ok the shop was very nice The lady was also very nice ordered lots of chips to eat and a burger the shop was clean and not too trendy perfect for relaxing and playing with your phone headphones on and then a burger Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: mint environment clean and tidy not particularly crowded when I went service bell service okay McSpicy Chicken Wings fries double cheeseburger McMac Crispy Sauce Chicken Set McMac Crispy Sauce Chicken Pipa Thighs strawberry cones platebroiled chicken thigh burger jumbo burger Cheese Angus Thick Beef Burger Set So Big Chicken Fillet Cylinder Ice Cream Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Its conveniently located right downstairs from the office so grab some McSpicy Chicken Wings for the occasional event Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Chicken Thigh Burger  a burger to fill you up after not having lunch I feel a bit dry  Ice Cream Cone  a classic ice cream cone Ive been eating it for more than 10 years Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Love buying vouchers at VW and then going to the app to use them very convenient Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: When you dont know what to eat eat McDonalds Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: This one tastes quite peculiar not unpleasant but not my favourite flavour Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The dining environment is good for after lunch Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: I love McDonalds McMuffin Breakfast its easy to find there are plenty of places to eat and you can pick up your food quickly Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Angus MAX Beef Bacon Burger McDonalds is getting more and more expensive you cant afford to order takeaway you can only eat in the shop Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Centre City McDonalds every noon after work to go to the people are quite a lot now point a meal are mobile phone scanning code ordering very convenient do not have to queue the shop in the centre of the city inside quite wide every time you want to eat fried chicken wings when they run to buy because of the close ah the meal is also fast ah hahaha sometimes will deliberately go to buy ice cream to eat and also to buy ice cream to eat Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The waitress was very polite the shop was clean and hygienic and the food fries etc were well fried Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: mint environment the environment is very good service bell service service is very good convenient convenient delicious Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Big crowd big seats not enough seats even on weekends Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: I bought a set meal for 3 people Its 10R cheaper than the public 3 burgers 3 drinks and snacks To be honest this is the first time Ive seen a McDonalds this cheap The product is certainly not a problem not because of the cheaper 10 yuan will not be the same Its a great deal Estimated or circle on the activity it Indeed the United States group now spend a lot of effort to do of course the most costeffective into the guests Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Its pretty cool the groupon is a good deal and its easy to order Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The environment is very good all I love to eat often come to the family really good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The environment is very good the most like to sit in front of the sofa very comfortable The company is very close to this often come to eat the product is stable Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Good review The ambience is also very nice McMuffin Crispy Juicy Chicken recommended Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Its a big shop its been open for many years and I often stop by his place to refuel and have a little sit down when Im tired of wandering around the centre city Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Mammon So delicious love the quality as always Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Its even better than Hong Kong so every time I come to the Mainland Ill definitely patronise it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Good food  fast food very nice environment love this place Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The food comes out quickly the portions are generous the restaurant is clean and the flavours are good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The first choice in fast food quick and tasty but easy to catch fire Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: mint environment can be ha this shop good point is that it has a part of the seat can be wireless charging is very novel haha space is quite big seat quite a lot  McDonalds quite pit point is that a lot of things have to buy it members can be the normal price of a hamburger package no members than members expensive so much Membership price is also the previous normal price duck only this with the 1 1 package more than 10 yuan costeffective point Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Awesome Yummy yummy yummy McDonalds is so good and the new packaging line puppies are so cute Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Fries I love McDonalds Mint Ambience Many locations haha Service Bell Service Selfservice Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: I always get tired of McDonalds cones and I heard that they recently came out with a matcha flavour so Ill try that next time I go Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Its a big shop McDonalds as always is a good place to pass the time Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Fries  just fried very crispy and sprinkled with salt  great texture Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: New Matcha Cyclone flavour is hard to say the taste is very greasy always like their ice cream but the new Matcha Cyclone taste is really not good greasy even if but also with a little bit of bitter I feel that now the taste is really getting more and more strange not as good as the past the other ice cream flavour is good this Matcha is really not recommended Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Its stable just the fries are a bit greasy But cost effective and efficient Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The first time I ate McDonalds was so much fun it wasnt too expensive the environment was exceptionally nice and the burgers were better than Wallace Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: mint environment location in the Convention and Exhibition Centre metro station of the Link Exhibition Centre City the mall is inside the Golden Cinema next to the outside is next to the Nespresso The shop is still relatively large there are many locations every time you go there is basically a location There are a lot of people on weekdays and weekends It is very suitable for watching a film to be too late to eat buy some food and drink in McDonalds Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Cafe Grass Chicken is good the environment is good the service is even better and the food comes out exceptionally fast Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The flavour is fine Children like to eat mint environment general Service Bell Service Service is enthusiastic Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Regular shop very good Recently there was an event recommend Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The ambience is nice and the service is good for a quick meal Mai Mai Crispy Sauce Chicken Set Mai Mai Crispy Sauce Chicken Pipa Thighs Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds fries are still good and the chocolate on top of the ice cream is quite tasty Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Set menu needless to say the classic is delicious and affordable service bell service very good mint environment nice Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Who can say no to McDonalds please Snack platter my love Cant live without McSpicy Chicken Wings  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The McDonalds in Shenzhen is even better than the one in Hong Kong with good service how do you expect the one in Hong Kong to survive Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The ambience is great the fries are crispy and the chicken thighs are delicious its one of my favourite food places its so good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Ive recently fallen in love with McDonalds again Ha ha ha Restraint Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Its so cold and tasty I feel so comfortable after eating it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Point and click for vouchers scan the order pick up the small ticket and its packed before I even sit down God speed Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Disneys 100th year is quite suitable for children to spend their birthdays oh Mammon Forever Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Clean environment great service fast can come back often Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds is great the goto lunch for working people Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: mint environment the environment is still quite good space is wide directly from the underground station inside through to soon  service bell service the service is quite good fast food turn the table quickly not afraid of no position to sit Ten wings meal is delicious and affordable like spicy crunchy can get into yo Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The new kids set comes in a beautiful package with cute toys The fries were crispy and the burger was great Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Heartwarming Disney toys and heartwarming McDonalds kids set Yummy  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The service was great the ambience was great and they also had my favourite burger and fries  ha  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Now you can scan the code directly at the machine and use the circle so convenient this location is suitable for breakfast to touch the fish Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The food came out fast the fries were crispy and the service was exceptional 5 stars Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Super love the McSpicy Chicken Thigh Burger I have to order it every time Once a week I have to hit McDonalds to get the food out especially fast and the service is great Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Outside to play McDonalds is the first choice basically McDonalds is a constant flow of people order a set menu did not pay attention to the time of ordering after the meal found that there are really too many things can not eat ah Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Once you enter the mall the drinks and coffee are all expensive so youre right to choose Golden M The second one is also halfprice Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: This McDonalds has been open for years its not bad its a good choice for fast food Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: mint environment very costeffective in the daily seconds inside the voucher to grab from small food in addition to the price change or very much love to eat Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds McSpicy Chicken Wings is my favourite I loved KFC before but lately I think McDonalds tastes better McSpicy Chicken Wings chicken is more tender the breadcrumbs are fragrant the bread and greens are also fresher in addition to its other baked wings and the small desserts are also tasty PERFECT go to the collateral exhibitions will go to the neighbourhood to shop around and when youre hungry youll eat some snacks or more satisfied service Bell Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Yummy The fries are crunchy You need more vegetables and more sauce Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Treating my mates to a couple of set menus one burger and 1 coke after a busy day we all had a great meal Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McMuffin Crispy Sauce Chicken Set PlateBroiled Chicken Thigh Burger and some new products Creamy Chocolate McSwirl Its unbeatable Go and try it I didnt realise that McDonalds still had vouchers for the general public got a Gaga Mahjongs Plate Roasted Chicken Thigh Burger mediocre Nothing particularly amazing felt like the same old plate roast Felt like it was still 11 flavourful Please dont raise the price Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The fries are extra crispy every time I visit and the McMac Crispy Chicken tastes amazing Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Really admire this shop things less even if but also not delicious and called half a day no one responded want to eat in the shop called half a day waiter no one to take care of can only choose to take out Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Hit the workers canteen McMenamins Forever Last years favourite was the Katzs Chicken Burger coated with sesame sauce it was delicious the chicken wasnt as spicy as the McSpicy Chicken Thigh Burger there was a slice of tomato and the overall taste wasnt too dry and gaggy I dont know why it was taken off the shelves such a shame But Angus is also good McSpicy Fish is also delicious McDonalds restaurant is amazing always make people sit in the shop feel hot and fragrant Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The environment is very clean McSpicy is very tasty often order these I like you can also try different flavours I think they are quite good good service is the reason why I often come service bell service really good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds fries  are my favourite Im a fries star hahaha the McSpicy Chicken Wings are also very good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: As always it was convenient and quick and the service lady was good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Hey the fries are good the burger has lots of veggies and its affordable and punchable Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The restaurant has a lot of space many locations and the food comes out very quickly the public ordered a set menu and the service is also very good recommend this  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: A good place to fix lunch the new chicken wings are so good to be honest the beef burger has a consistent flavour the fries are always good as long as they are freshly fried and once a week its a great meal for fattening up Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: This mj eat a lot of years it in addition to the baby chair a little dirty outside the weekday night people are very few next to the sunken square is very comfortable new  sesame sauce cheese plate burning is actually   very little all the sesame sauce with the taste of todays childrens paradise meal to send the Stitch doll Oh quite cute every time you go meland dont know what to eat all come to this mj Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The service was great the tapas set was delicious the burgers had a wide variety to choose from and the food was served quickly so Ill be back next time Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The environment is great the food is delicious  everyone can come and check it out the service is really good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Mint environment the environment is great Both sides have a place to sit Miss service is very good afternoon people are not a lot of people do not know what to eat down to eat a set menu is very costeffective The meal is very fast Super tasty portion full location in the collar exhibition Centre City G floor is easy to find the weekend is also very suitable for small sisters to come over to eat and talk about the day will not be very noisy and quiet Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The new product tastes good the environment is good the food comes out fast Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The environment is good the fries are very good McSpicy Chicken Leg Burger taste very good Oh recommend that everyone to the shop experience Oh Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Grabbed the 3piece set for 1290 super deal for lunch wish there were more of these events Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The shop is quite big with a dessert shop next to it and the food comes out quickly which is not bad Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Collage Centre Do you want to see what kind of fries youre loading Medium Fries Is it because of the takeaway or is it because of the Angus Gouda set its going to hang on to the name of medium fries  doing small fries The amount of small fries in the name of medium fries really pisses me off Also gave me a pressed box Gundam because of the takeaway luckily I opened it on site and looked at it and immediately went to get a replacement one Really impressed Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds was launching a new discount package online buy people quite a lot it is best to order online and then go there to pick up but also to avoid the midday rush hour That package really do not too costeffective there is the classic McSpicy Chicken Thighs burger plus fries with Coke plus a pair of McSpicy Chicken Wings plus a piece of chicken steak the midday meal is too satisfied Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Golden Crispy Potato Griddle This is my favourite french fries its pink and sticky very tasty Pineapple Pie Slightly sweet pineapple pie Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Love their McSpicy Chicken Wings and NotSoSoBar Burger  Only recently I realised that there are events on Mondays hahaha I feel like I missed out on a billion in the past  This time I ordered a BuSuZhouZhiBa Burger Coke  fries got a free chicken wing and a cone for the new members its beautiful  The fries are really tasty when theyre freshly fried and eaten and this one is very consistent in terms of its output Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds fries  Im a favourite theyre just a little bit salty Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The set menu which is often ordered is just right for small stomachs and is also very tasty Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The shop I always trusted and always chose to eat and drink I can get everything I want here its just perfect for me McDonalds is not a restaurant its a way of life Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The fries are so good I love McDonalds fries Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: mint ambience good service bell service good fries 1290 3piece small coke  small fries  chili burger Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Favourite fries from McDonalds house crispy and delicious Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Coffee is quite good drinkable coffee is quite good coffee is quite good coffee is quite good coffee is quite good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Steady play McMen The overall environment is very good waiters clean up the rubbish in a timely manner out of the meal very quickly cold will also be replaced directly very responsible The location is very convenient and eyecatching to find Next to the Nachelle Collaborative Exhibition Centre City shopping district to eat drink and play all have Suitable for children can also have a McDonalds birthday will have a special layout has the atmosphere Recommended recommended Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The new Poor Mans Meal with that spicy flavour and that strawberry pie is really something Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: I have bought several months of McDonalds breakfast especially costeffective basically every day to eat other places a bread is about 10 yuan McDonalds and a cup of coffee my favourite this plate of scrambled eggs burger I think its very tasty the eggs are also very tender but also recommend the pork tenderloin burger are very good and recently out of the McSpicy Chicken Legs Burger threepiece set of  10 or so stocked up a lot of very good value Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Service Bell ServiceThe waiter was very patient and the food came out quickly Doubledecker planted thick system breakfast meat custard egg wheat full of points Volkswagen review 88 costeffective Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: mint ENVIRONMENT The environment is very nice Its right next to Nescos Tea on Level G of Link Centre City Very good to find service bell service service is also good The waitress lady is very pretty Very gentle Taro Pie is delicious The taro in the middle of the crunchy is especially fragrant Not greasy at all Mes favourite Crispy Bamboo Shoots Roll is very fragrant The bamboo shoots dont stink and its a great combination I love Mai Mais French fries They are crispy I wouldnt say they are soft Ive had them several times and they are the best The price is affordable too Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The setting was great and the hot fries were so good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds was delicious as usual The new products are also very tasty Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Moderate the taste is still good a little better than the other branches hahahaha I forgot to take a picture of the food I ordered Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Popular review is really a good APP the volume purchased online in a small programme directly identified I order on the road and then go to the physical shop to take without two minutes you can get your hands on the doughnuts can be not oil chewy and tough want it Snow Vegetable Crispy Bamboo Shoots Chicken Congee the material is too little looking for chicken in the congee but for the bad appetite of me this congee is also good recommended to buy it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Mint environment has always been a very favourite one decoration style comfort are very good Service bell Service The clerk is busy and will also try as soon as possible to provide friendly service has been quite good Matcha Aphrodite is really specifically to spit on Aphrodite to write a review This one is a kind of incomplete San Shinji The matcha part was a bit disappointing as the hot water for the matcha powder wasnt quite ready and it was poured into the shindig Im going to try the coffee version Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Feeling now McDonalds favourite fort is McShanks and Plate Roasted Chicken Thighs Fort especially Plate Roasted Chicken Thighs Fort the Centre City shop to do the Plate Roasted Casserole is particularly juicy roasted just right black pepper taste is not too McShanks Chicken can also eat out the special taste not dip the material is also tasty There are also McDonalds cones are really costeffective ceiling than now wait for me icecream assassin is too friendly Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: I bought the buy one get one free group buy icecream and ate it with my husband it was very delicious Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Affordable and moderately tasty all pretty good just a little slow to come out Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: woolgathering buy one get one free pie chose pineapple pie and taro puree pie do not know why suddenly chose not like the pineapple pie the moment you eat the regret originally like pineapple just do not like the taste of pineapple pie too long I have not eaten it I forgot or taro puree flavour is delicious sweet and silky texture coupled with the shell of the crunchy if the activities of the red bean pie is very good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: This shop has a lot of people coming and going not a lot of locations business is good great location often have activities or more favourable I hope the business can be more promotional activities we will all continue to pay attention During the summer holidays here near the newly opened bobo pool so McDonalds business is better every time you go is full of people Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Needless to say its not like we havent eaten before Its all standardised Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Bought the American group rolls do not know how to open the little sister is very good to help me from the phone to find the rolls and complete the purchase of the chicken pieces fried relatively dry other okay Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: First of all this set meal is very tasty very large portions fries and coke can not eat the kind the boys should be able to also send a goodlooking glass thoughtful young lady also chose the girls favourite colours and put the bag in the packaging of the evening business is very good in front of the twenty or thirty single the waiter is very busy but are seriously and patiently a part of a good during which time to accept a variety of childrens various needs Kudos Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: At that time off work on the public saw this Tanabata Set because I feel that it is still quite a good deal the meal for two people have a burger chicken legs Coke fries and chicken nuggets really is a very good deal ah but the only drawback is that the air conditioning is too big because the seats are full and then sit under the air conditioning where it is really cold  Other quite good out of the meal is quite fast Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Me What is the meaning of life  To get a whole lot of fries to eat Me No I mean what is the point of living  To get some fries to eat Me Well then give me a dozen Extra large portions McMen forever Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Its the best of the worst The guy who cleans up the rubbish in there is retarded and doesnt understand a word of it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: I came here from work to take a walk I came over to McDonalds and ordered a kspin the lady said there was no icecream today so I had to give up I ordered a snack platter When I got it I felt that the hot wings had been fried for a long time or had been left out for a long time I asked a young guy to help me change them I dont know if they were changed inside but when I got them and ate them they were hard to chew so faggy There was no juice whatsoever Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Often have seen in other platforms have McDonalds offers absolutely absolute son ah family McDonalds often eat rarely seen to get the wool heavy on the cheap It happens to be a big night hungry only McDonalds is open on the run over to eat mint environment the environment is very good the place is very big a set meal a fort  a cup of cola night snacks to get done Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Mint Ambience nice ambience good service McSpicy Chicken Wings French Fries is served quickly and is a good choice for a weekday lunch Suggest all nearby can come to try coupon used is also very cheap and costeffective Service Bell Service good service ordering fast Favourite things McSpicy Chicken Thigh Burger and Fries and McSpicy Chicken Wings are delicious Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Great ambience and superb flavours Especially love the fries here Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: mint environment in the G floor opposite Nai Xue the location is still quite good to find plate grilled chicken thighs burger set meal todays ingredients do not know why seems to be a big difference with the taste of the previous before you can eat the amount of two eat a mouthful of it and then lost Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds is really the gospel of the slum girl every time you go out to play hungry to go to eat McDonalds 139 of the poor set meal a supersized chicken fillet and a taro pie to eat down the night basically can not eat down in so hot weather is certainly to come back to a cone every time to play the cone of the lady is very generous to play ah ah a mouthful of super satisfied Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Quite a lot of space the kids loved it and had a great time eating it Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Love to eat McDonalds especially the doubledecker custard every time you must order this time to buy the set meal to send a Coke cup would like to ask if you can change the colour the waitress lady is also very enthusiastic the service is as good as ever love to eat Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Mai Mai Crispy Sauce Chicken Drumsticks Mai Mai Crispy Sauce Chicken Drumsticks are very tasty very juicy I eat them all the time the ambience is very nice and everyone clears the table very quickly Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The fries were crispy and the ice cream was buy one get one free The little granddaughters had a blast Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Delicious cheap like Mobile phones buy house buy car you that place trouble you guys feel you method you can only feel lint didnt why feel trouble send that so many years private send trouble you give you give you mobile phones trouble you give you a few drops elevate the express fee times buy food place trouble you just want to see feedback to drive drive to open the course name of the class well surely fast recovery drive drive fast open the course eat fast food of the location sister thank you sis for looking at the room for the supervisory inspections on the tonight weight loss weight loss police department reliable feedback reference reference Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Very tasty Mai Mai eat it all tomorrow and the environment is still very nice too Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: We recommend the VIP set menu from Dianping which is affordable and quick to prepare Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Beautiful scenery great service very good sundaes very good next time Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The ambience is delicious very good service is very good next time to come again Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The environment is very tasty tasty service is very good next time will come again Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Great flavour great environment great service great next time again Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The environment is very nice and clean the service is very good the food is very good and we will come back next time Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: mint environment shop area is divided into two pieces a dessert area a lot of play can directly sit down and chat on the other side of the main hall air conditioning is really cold service bell service out of the meal quickly eat the feeling similar to fast food service you may need to take the initiative to go to the call of the fourgallon portion is not a set menu mobile phone picture of the more fried potatoes french fries with sweet and sour sauce french fries  give the ketchup  recommend buy one get one free McSwirl an Oreo and a strawberry  flavour taste are very tasty McMac fun chicken balls compared to the chicken rice balls smaller taste is not quite the same but the taste is very tasty Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The food comes out fast the environment is very nice and the service is good Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The shop is very nice the food is delicious and comes out fast Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Mint Environment This McDonalds is a very old shop in the Link Exhibition Centre City I remember when there was the Centre City they were the first to move in there are more than 10 years right Its located at Exit b of the Convention and Exhibition Centre Station on Metro Line 1 and Line 4 and is connected to Level G west of the Link Centre City without having to go out of the ground level There are indoor and semioutdoor seats Pork Tenderloin McMuffin is the one Im used to eating and Ive had it many times Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: McDonalds was great as always and the service at the Link Centre shop was superb Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: service bell service very good service attitude mint environment beautiful environment full of lights  dishes the Big Mac is as delicious as ever  fries are crispy  McSpicy Chicken Wings favourite la I finally got my hands on the coke cup I wanted the most  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The service of the shop assistant is really sweet I ordered the set meal on the phone to do ice cream to the front desk exchange the lady very patiently said that the place to order food on the other side of the place only sells ice cream but also a huge sweet personally lead the way to lead me over too warm hearted mint environment the environment is very good wooden seats plus warm light shop dining is very comfortable Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: Still a familiar flavour the joy of the day is in place Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The service was excellent Laid out in a specialised tasting environment A shop I would hit again Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The kids birthday party was so much fun with little hats and ice creams  Area: Futian
Name: McDonalds (Link Centre City) Comments: The birthday party was a great time with toys mini dishes and the kids had fun Area: Futian
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: The food is fast, when I went there were not many people, and there were still places, when I ate, I found that every table was occupied. Breakfast is quite good,, Soy Milk is quite sweet, before always eat lunch, dinner, suddenly found that breakfast is also delicious. You can try it sometime, and it's also a pleasure to change to other flavours of burgers, so crunchy, crunchy, crunchy, crunchy, crunchy, crunchy, crunchy, crunchy. Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: The waitresses were super nice. the female manager was exceptionally nice and the kids loved her and loved going to this shop. Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: One of the best choices for hitting workers, the new product is also quite tasty, double yyds, World Cup mate, the winner of the Olympics Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: Convenient traffic, service is also good, assembly line of the restaurant, the afternoon people especially, on the meal speed is a little slow, the rest are okay, appetite is also especially good, taste or the same old, every time to do do, the first floor environment is also good, the overall special, I like this, fast food fast food fast food fast, affordable Tim stomach, music can be, next time to eat, huh huh! Trustworthy shops. Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: Taste: the most favourite wheat wheat French Fries fresh and crispy, ice cream is also very good environment: the environment is not bad up and down two floors, is a little less seating service: out of the meal very quickly, the need for sauce waiter will meet! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: Comfortable environment, good service, Ovaltine McFLURRY kids love to eat! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: Eat once every two days and love Mai Mai! I recommend everyone to come and eat on the first floor Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: The food is tasty, easy to order, efficient, nice environment, two floors, upstairs has a washroom, the overall feeling is very good Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: The chicken thighs were very tasty and a small ice-cream for the child was beautiful. Great service from the young lady. Mai mai plus oil. Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: Fresh from the oven, the taro pie is crispy, crunchy and super tasty! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: McMen believers in new products must chase! Super cute Halloween-themed McFLURRY, Ovaltine flavour Jedi Jedi Son Service:As always, good, fast food, smile service makes people feel comfortable Environment:Clean and hygienic, stable production Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: McMenamins Punch, this shop has Ovaltine McFLURRY with biscuits! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: I love McDonald's French Fries, I purchased the voucher from **GroupBuy, and the waitress patiently taught me how to use it, so I support McDonald's and love French Fries! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: The quality of service from the waitress was excellent. , my favourite McFLURRY, ice cream I only recognize McDonald's, haha, the lady also gave my baby small toys, too thoughtful! Big ups! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: Environment:The environment is good, just outside the door do not want to cook preferred service:The service is very good, the children to go also send mini ice cream restaurant dishes cost-effective super high. Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: The Flying Saucer Chicken Fillet Burger was very tasty and flavourful. Plus a French Fries Coke, perfect match. The restaurant is nice and cool, and the lady in the lobby has great service and helps deliver the food to the table. Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: The red raisin flavoured cone was delicious, came for dinner with friends in the evening and the shop was very nice. Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: Burgers are very good especially McSpicy Chicken Burger and Coke French Fries when you are not in a good mood come to McDonald's to eat a burger to eat and drink nothing to think about! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: Recommend this shop, clean fast and tasty Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: Taste:The flavour is very good especially the French Fries is super tasty, the environment is clean and hygienic, the waiter has a good attitude! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: This is the best McDonald's in Shenzhen. Whenever I am hungry, the manager always gives me a sense of happiness and always greets me with the brightest smile, giving me a sense of being home, McDonald's is always my happy home! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: The environment is very cosy. Food comes out quickly and tastes very good. Great choice for lunch. Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: This restaurant is superb value for money. The food comes out fast the service is great. The flavours are authentic and delicious, the French Fries are crunchy and tangy! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: Environment:Clean and hygienic. Service:The service attitude is very good, and the food is also very fast. Value for money: there is a breakfast card is very affordable Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: In Bao Neng City around three McDonald's to find the closest to home, but the lowest rating, this time really let not superstitious rating of the people really twist the concept of ordering more than 20 minutes not out of the meal, but the display screen has been fifteen minutes ago to show that please pick up the meal, but also quite funny, the staff has been to let a little bit of yue Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: The waitress was very nice and the food was delicious! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: The staff service is very good and the hygiene is also good, thank you Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: Not too many people, dining experience is relatively good, mammon forever hhh Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: Walked past McDonald's and took the kids in for a bite to eat, ordered two McFLURRY's which were super yummy, tasty and beautiful. Upstairs there is a children's playground area, children play quite high. The restaurant is clean and tidy, the lady service is enthusiastic, took the initiative to provide me with plain water. Very great. Super loved the McDonald's French Fries, Grilled Chicken Sandwich burger, very tasty. McMac with oil! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: MaiMai's French Fries original Grilled Chicken Sandwich is as delicious as ever, and there are always preferential activities, every time the lady service is quite good, or prefer online ordering, to the time of the direct restaurant to pick up food, very good. Every meal ordering lady will send food to the table, very convenient and comfortable. The environment is also very good, cool and comfortable, children play also happy. Thank you MaiMai! Mai Mai plus oil! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: The restaurant is clean and tidy and the service is warm and welcoming. The burgers are deliciously juicy, the French Fries are crispy and there is a special Happy Zone meal for children. The food comes out quickly and customers are satisfied with their meal. It's a cosy option for busy people. Bring us convenient and happy, food safety is guaranteed to eat safe and happy. Basically meet the public's tastes and needs, will always strongly support. Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: Today once again passed by the Baoneng Chengxi District McDonald's, unknowingly came in, ordered an original Grilled Chicken Sandwich Chicken Thighs Castle Set, the most like to eat McMac's French Fries. Miss service attitude is very good, take the initiative to help me to send food to the table, to the small children to send free ice-cream to eat, it is really love love love. McDonald's environment is elegant, the temperature is suitable, the first floor has a children's playground area, two children play happily. Buy and sell cheer! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: "French Fries" is the best of the best, flavour: kids love it! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: "Double Cheeseburger" is one of the most classic items in the poor man's package! I personally think McDonald's burger, two slices of bread, the top one is more delicious, so I am using the two upper part of the slices of bread with patties, DIY Big Mac, very happy "Coca-Cola Oreo Limited Edition" I heard it is very hard to drink, just drank the first sip, I think it's okay, I regretted it a second later, he has a little bit to make my throat uncomfortable "Strawberry Shindig" Strawberry Shindig is a little bit to make my throat uncomfortable Uncomfortable, the syrup tastes weird and I can't say it's Oreo flavoured a bit upsetting to the throat "Strawberry Shindig" Strawberry Shindig is of course always excellent! After all, Mai Mai's strawberry jam is able to eat real strawberry pulp ah Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: The food is very slow, every time I order, I have to wait for more than 10 minutes for the food to come out. It took more than 10 minutes for the order to come out. The French Fries were fried only after all the other meals were ready, and the coke was out of gas when I got it. The staff are not hygienic, they never wear gloves to grab the bag of French Fries, and why do they wear masks when their noses and mouths are exposed? Feedback problems a hundred times not dealt with, very poor management of a family. We recommend you to take a few more steps to eat at the McDonald's next door. Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: I do not allow anyone in this world disobedient matcha soy milk pie ah ah ah ah ah ah ah this return is really too perfect 3.5 with no money is almost the same and the taste is also so delicious ah ah ah ah ah the first time on the shelves I had eaten at the time may be too hot because of freshly baked felt delicious but not very amazing this time to see the return of matcha Soy Milk head simply can not help but eat again this time is to get until a little cooler before eating the crust is particularly crispy inside the taste is super heavy not sweet bitter matcha next to soy milk Soy Milk taste is also thick and distinctive never eaten so positive taste Soy Milk I had to wait until it had cooled down a bit before I ate it. The outer skin was especially crispy and the matcha flavour inside was super strong and it was a bitter matcha that wasn't too sweet. The soy milk next to it was also very strong and distinct. The banana cone is not bad, but the banana McFLURRY is better because of the pulp. I recommend it! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: McDonald's ice cream is just delicious, and right now** the package has 10 for $20, available for 2 servings per day: Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: I feel bad that there is no service or double checking of the food. Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: Delicious as always, frequent events and discounted packages available! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: The most rubbish McDonald's ever, waiting for food is a long way off and no one replies to the reason when you go to the front desk 20 minutes after placing your order to enquire about the situation. Suggested to be banned Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: The location is very convenient and the shop is big, so it's very convenient Wow. Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: Bao Neng City negative one floor, out of the metro station D mouth turn right and then turn left on the right hand side can be seen, very good to find ~ waiters are also very enthusiastic, the speed of the meal is most satisfactory, the environment is also relatively quiet, study and work of some people, McFLURRY every time must point, French Fries crispy and delicious, beef burger in this first try, very nice! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: It's too slow, fast food is not fast ...... suggests that people order half an hour earlier Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: The burger was pretty good, the French Fries were crunchier, and the mammon Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: The air-conditioning is sufficient, a good place to sit and relax, the environment is also good, quiet, and the service is also very good "French Fries", "Chicken with wheat flavour", "3-piece burger set". Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: McDonald's is my happy old home hehehe! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: Favourite place to come for McFLURRY, buy one second half price, can be hosted for a month! Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: I love McDonald's, the Grilled Chicken Sandwich is so good "Original Grilled Chicken Sandwich Chicken Thigh Burger". Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Book Centre) Comments: One of the messiest, slowest McDonald's I've ever seen. Area: Longhua
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's across the country are similar, only for children's services Pink Clothes Miss will be different. Just opened when there were a few leaks this leak that, when the shop manager is quite responsible, with the team is also relatively young, Pink Sister coaxed the children also really have a hand. Produce stable meals fast ...... can be 24 hours business know business will not be too bad! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: First McDonald's I've seen in years of eating there is poor service, the shop is a mess, like a warehouse, and the key wing buckets are mushy! Avoid this place if you can. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Favourite McDonald's, especially since Chicken McMac Crispy Juice came out, never eat KFC again. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: French Fries has always been the best, friends big and small love it and the service is excellent, brunch's preferred brand! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's ate the most is the original ice cream, walking on the road to see can not help but buy a walk and eat, and his family's French Fries with chilli sauce, McSpicy Chicken Burger and a variety of burgers, skinny congee ...... are delicious ah wow wow wow, write write me! I can't help but salivate hahaha, after writing a group to relieve the craving! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: place location: Tong Lang community Tong Ling Road Bao Neng City Garden West 3 buildings Tong Lang d exit out suggests navigation environment: quieter they have two floors here quite good service: Miss attitude is very good very kind taste: burger is very good like "original Grilled Chicken Sandwich chicken leg fort" "ten wings meal" recently also ten wings bucket offers next time to come again Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Night out for food, passing by the Baoneng City East District clerk said Baoneng City West District shop open, McDonald's app also shows that the West District shop is open until 24:00, you can order food, and then go to the West District. The result is to see this closing notice. I was angry, I walked back and forth for half a day, and it was raining, so I ran for nothing. I saw the clerk at the door and asked what was going on, and the clerk replied that she didn't know what was going on with the app. I said I wanted to complain, let people run for nothing, the clerk said you complain. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's has a long history, starting with the first McDonald's at the East Gate of Shenzhen, and now, eating McDonald's has been more than 40 years. The product is as stable as ever, never fried French Fries, every time is accompanied by a packet of ketchup. It is a very stable product, of course, it is also very tasty, otherwise it would not be so many years to go to buy French Fries. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: You have to wait 20 minutes for a McDonald's! Speechless! We're severely understaffed. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Favourite McDonald's, loved it so much as a kid, it's okay to treat yourself to it again when you grow up! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The sister who served me at lunch was very nice, very satisfied, give another compliment Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Yummy yummy, the manager lady is particularly good, tasting will not have time to participate in the afternoon to help me patiently answer questions, the shop service is also very good, the environment is clean and tidy, very satisfied! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's Weekend Must Have with the little ones this weekend! One ice cream for each little potty boy, and a sweat boiler pass all over again! Praise be praised! Favourite! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Everyday upstairs after the order, downstairs to pick up convenient and quick. Pie activity is not too many people, order and pick up! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The service was super unbeatable and satisfactory! Things were made super clean and delicious! Favourite is the Crispy French Fries! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Recommend this McDonald's ~ good environment! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I often come here after work, and I love to eat at this restaurant for late night snacks. The service is also very good, and every time I order French Fries, they are all freshly fried! I would recommend this restaurant! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Often come over, the environment is very good; the staff is very enthusiastic, come more familiar with often greetings; produce fast, food quality online; almost every other day will come to drink iced American; every time there is a problem will be patiently resolved. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Spicy McWings feels like it's re-fried and not so crispy, but everything else is pretty good, so maybe I'm just unlucky. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Good flavours, nice ambience, ok. Service is good. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: My favourite is the spicy wings + coke + cone, it's the perfect pairing and I must order it every time. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I ate the new crunchy product, the outer skin is not crunchy, the gonzo inside is crunchy, the overall flavour is chorizo flavour, and I burped it all before going to bed Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Originally opened in the community door next to the kindergarten after school time is the peak time this go a few times, the manpower is simply not enough an aunt and have to prepare food and out of the meal but also to go to the back kitchen during rush hour called the number of the mouth of the pick-up waiting for 20 minutes there are two yellow-haired young man leisurely next to the side also do not help m record personnel training to manage it! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: This McDonald's near home can be said to eat every week this fast food shop is also enough to sit in the shop's brother and sister is also patient and kind most of the coupon code can be used in the machine some can not be used in the case of the brother and sister is very patient to help in the front desk to help write off the machine environment is not bad is that the first floor of the big table is always ringing! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Ice cream is very good, the environment is very good, the traffic is very convenient, deep love cod burger, chicken nuggets are also very good, set meal is very cost-effective, there are often activities with coupons, welcome to hit the card! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: In fact, when I was young and ignorant I used to look for where to get a really good burger, I shouted to the sky, when I looked up again I saw a big m in the sky emitting a golden light, and it turned out to be McMenamins! Went in and ordered the burger, so good! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Love their French Fries and ice cream, great service! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Very hard to eat, the beef burger was very dry and faggy and I don't know how long it had been frozen, it wasn't fresh at all Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Classic McDonald's this flavour is very tasty, is still the taste of childhood childhood yearning taste, this one Bao Neng City West shop their service is very good things are also very fresh speed is also very fast, so recommend that we come to eat brothers rushed ah. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Open at home McDonald's, come and dazzle!!!! McDonald's French Fries still smells so good and the cones are still so sweet and tasty, love it! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Spicy McWings, an all time favourite, came to try the new prawn burger and the clerk changed the drink, it was really good, and the fish burger was also good, supposedly a money losing burger! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The taste of the food is very good, the warmth of the workers to fight the canteen, speed and taste coexist in the fast food restaurant, the warmth of the workers to fight the canteen door, etc. 8906644789542 home of the business on the road for 3 hours without sleep can also be 8 degrees of live video and friends to see that some people like to see this kind of drama it ...... then take a good look at whether we have what Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Things produced very stable, very tasty, recommendable service: service attitude is also good, selected the desired toys environment: as always, the style of Mai Kee, good Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's opened in front of the house is definitely over to eat it McDonald's, the light of my life, the fire of desire, my sin, my soul. McDonald's; the tip of the tongue has to be moved down from the palate three times to the third time and then gently pressed against the teeth: McDonald's. -lao. Anyway, it's just delicious, so hurry up and hit it! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The flavour is very good, the package is good value for money, recommended recommended McMenamins Forever! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment:Nice environment, good service! The menu is very fast! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Not bad, the Mai Mai is still delicious, and the temperature and service inside the house is great! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Great flavours and great service! Very fast, not too long a wait, and the staff are very courteous Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: There's no one who doesn't love the Grilled Chicken Sandwich Chicken Thigh Burger, right? It's a hit for the workers on their way to work. The meat is really smooth and tender. This set meal is also a great deal. That big chicken fillet is nice and crispy and a bit spicy too. It's good value and filling. Drinks can be replaced with orange juice is also good. It was quick to pick up the food, and the order was pre-ordered. It was still hot when I brought it back to the office. My favourite is the Grilled Chicken Sandwich Burger. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I came up here specifically to write this bad review because I have never felt such poor service at a McDonald's. I waited 15 minutes for two ice creams for my kids and was extremely impatient when I asked. The ice cream we got was collapsed and small, and they didn't even say sorry for the machine problem that they couldn't get out. And complained that I rushed them! So I waited 25 minutes for an ice cream and in the end it's my problem that you can't get it out and don't apologise for treating me badly? Who gave you a hard time? Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: 1, this dish is very appetising as soon as it hits the table, with a rich aroma that is very tempting. The texture is very crispy and smooth. The rich sauce wrapped around the ingredients, bite down the sauce filled the mouth. And the ingredients were very fresh and the amount given was sufficient, super value for money. Next time I have the opportunity to definitely come back. 2, the restaurant environment is very good, very clean and tidy, the food is not only beautiful in appearance, but also the important thing is that the taste is very good, colour and taste. The practice retains the original flavour of the ingredients, fresh and crisp. And the choice of dishes is very much, the price is not high, suitable for taking the family to go together.3, the taste is superb, and at a glance let a person feel very appetising, but the portion is not large, belongs to a very delicate type. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I bought a voucher from the Tmall flagship shop and the clerk said I couldn't use it. I ended up using it myself on the self-service ordering machine successfully, and then Coke as well, and didn't look at it even after I made a note of it. Said all kinds of no, this shop is really bad Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The ice-cream machine was not working well on the day we went and the ice-cream was a bit thin. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: This McDonald's is quite large, the location is also very spacious, every time you go to make people feel very comfortable Service: Miss attitude of the service is also super good this shop we have been to a lot of times ah, it is a good place to get together with your little sister, French Fries must be ordered with Grilled Chicken Sandwich Chicken Thighs Castle and Coke, a perfect match ah! "French Fries" "Grilled Chicken Sandwich Chicken Leg Burger" Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: "French Fries" this time the French Fries fried very crispy, more delicious than before to go to other shops "McNuggets (5 pieces)" friends have eaten, very tasty "Original Grilled Chicken Sandwich Chicken Thighs Castle" this burger is very recommendable, his sister is also very much like, every time it is necessary to order this burger, good! Environment: Tabletop is very clean Service. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The manager's sister is super nice, serves the food quickly, and has all the toys. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Love the McDonald's double cheeseburger, the product has been consistent and tasty! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The food here is especially good, and the environment is also good, I ate here eat burger three sets as you wish, only cost me less than $20, it is really cheap, I will come here to eat when I have time! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I always like McDonald's Grilled Chicken Sandwich Chicken Leg Burger, and when I went to Hong Kong, I also ate this set meal environment: quite clean "McDonald's Chicken"! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: across the street from home, the location is very convenient, the shop is clean and tidy service: the ladies are very enthusiastic, super good service attitude new berry berry good coincidence triangle pie sweetness moderate, highly recommended! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The food was extremely slow, the staff were extremely disorganised and several of the delivery boys were complaining at the same time, so please don't come if you're in a hurry. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Mai Mai Crispy Juice Chicken yyds, one of the best single product in the last three years, the skin is delicious, the chicken is tender, the juice is super, different parts of the feeling is different, the overall pipa legs greater than the chicken breasts, no wonder the price is also a little expensive. But the public review discount down liquid super cost-effective, Mammon believers will always guard the Mammon will not abandon the life and death together! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The toilets are all used for miscellaneous items, and there is one women's, unisex toilet, both of which can't be pushed out of the way. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: "Eat Burger 3 Piece Set As You Like It" 3 piece set as you like it, it's great "French Fries" Freshly baked French Fries are so good "Coca Cola Zero" A must for fat loss people, Coke Zero. Service:Cleaned in a timely manner, served food relatively quickly, good service attitude. Environment:Clean and bright, good location. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Facing the road, very conspicuous, M remember the dessert station location is very good and convenient, passing by a lot of people to buy, a long time have not eaten ice cream, looked at the public just have a coupon, buy one get one free, than the previous price increase ah, but it is very affordable, or the original flavour, the texture is very delicate and sweet, and when I was a child, the same, walking around to eat, it is very convenient, the day is hot, just to eliminate the summer heat. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: It's right downstairs, it's very convenient, and there's a lot of activities. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's all the time! (This shop is open 24 hours) "Chicken McNuggets (5 pieces)" is a favourite with its crispy fried chicken pieces! With a cup of cola and then a Grilled Chicken Sandwich burger, to solve the problem of hungry stomach service: the ladies are particularly gentle, patient! It's also a great place for friends to meet and chat, and a great choice for children's favourite birthday parties! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Today and Jimei go out shopping la, get some fairy dessert 778 by the way storm inhalation good drink to chop jiojio plus taro round plus pudding plus coconut plus taro puree plus Ao Ao crushed plus crunchy boing boing plus milk cover plus peanuts plus oatmeal plus red bean plus arsenic of milk tea last slow oral a v business purchased a piece of three no sugar control tablets, but also ordered the McDonald's split made a hidden desserts to eat McDonald's yyds, the puppy dog hooks storm inhalation of hidden After the dessert is delicious to warped jiojio, really absolute absolute son! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: "McFLURRY" two flavours can be and now seconds, buy one get one bargain environment: quite good, the first floor can also play games children may feel childish, twenty-something years old we are just fine, ha ha ha! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Today and colleagues with the mission, just to this Tanglang metro station, in Xili Bao Neng City this vicinity, alas, do not know what to eat, had to come to McDonald's to eat this, this McDonald's and other shops than or good, although the shop is not big, but there are two floors staff service attitude is also relatively good. The metro station is also relatively close. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Hitman is with me! Worship! Enter! Mai! Door! Big potato buy one get one free happy are Mai Mai give, go home air fryer a little more beautiful. Environment: the location of this one at the crossroads, home on the road is quite convenient. The ground floor out of the meal on the first floor elegant seats. Service: wheat wheat as always standardised health and peace of mind! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's as a chain of fast food brands, the most valuable, is to always maintain the standardisation, in any McDonald's, I can eat the same taste, which makes me feel at ease. Environment: this McDonald's environment is good, the first floor has a landscape seat, can sit by the window to enjoy the scenery, I like to sit by the window, especially in summer blowing the cold air, or very pleasant. Service: the service is also consistent and trustworthy as always. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I super love this freshly fried French Fries, I have high expectations of McDonald's, the food comes out quickly, in front of Chongwen Garden, freshly fried spicy wings and French Fries are yyds hahahaha ahahaha Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: the location can be, the air conditioning is also very adequate service: unfortunately, every time I come to feel the shop staff are not enough, coffee station, dessert station, ordering station are no one .... You have to wait and call someone. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's downstairs, often in this side to buy dinner, to be honest, the speed of food in the McDonald's I've been counted particularly fast, the quality of service in the shop can also keep up with the evening peak, usually when the food to get the hands of the time is still hot. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: This is the worst McDonald's service I've ever been to, a lot of the screen to be picked up, the waiter in the back of the leisurely, ask him a few number of good or not he only leisurely take out ...... what the hell, ready to not put out? Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McMen! The chicken was delicious, the chicken thighs were freshly fried and very crispy and juicy also loved the double yoshi, the custard was melted and then moistened in the bread and mixed with the beef, satisfying pinch! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Close to the company often come to the service is great produce stable service: sell cute forever! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: "Grilled Chicken Sandwich "Chicken McNuggets "Chicken McNuggets "Double Deep Sea Cod Burger "Chicken McMuffin "Spicy McWings "Ambience: OK Service: OK Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: How to praise you my Mai my only Mai since I met you I've had you for three meals I've had you for four seasons you've been the meaning of my life as a lighthouse you've illuminated the nights of thousands of students who wanted to die! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Very close to the flat, came basically every day, great flavour and service, great ambience, everyone is welcome to try it. mcFLURRY and French Fries were both delicious. Come back again. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: This McDonald's is my dining hall, I will definitely come here every day to clock in, especially like McDonald's double cheeseburger and Big Mac burger, as well as his French Fries, as well as his sugar-free cola, I grew up loving McDonald's. I really like eating McDonald's from primary school to work to marriage. I've loved McDonald's since I was a kid. I've eaten there since I was in first grade, and I've eaten there since I got married and had a baby. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: the shop is a little small, but the meal is still placed in order quite good service: little brother is very good, ask some questions can be answered not to see he is very busy or can reply in time "Big Mac delicious" is very tasty ordered a Big Mac for a long time have not eaten a Big Mac "McDonald's (Bao Nengcheng West)" queue waiting for a long time to eat is really a lot of people in fact, you can order ahead of time and then come over to get it is almost the same! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Very good very good, first class service, served very fast very fast very good very good very good very good very good very good very good very good plus a good hot wings very spicy, burger very big, not a bad choice hehehehehe Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: clean and tidy, two floors, and the location is easy to find, so if you don't know what to eat, go with McDonald's. Service: the whole shop is very good, the food comes out very quickly, love it. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Very tasty, nice environment, quite good service, good quality, good taste, very good, recommend to buy. Just in Xili Bao Neng City! Very good, very good! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Just downstairs at home very satisfied, often takeaway or their own downstairs to eat, eat at ease to see the health is also very clean, everyone's service attitude is also very good, very powerful everyone come and buy it. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: environment: today is so hot ah or pass by McDonald's fantastic it air conditioning is very powerful cool as hell in addition to the cone of ice cream absolute can come to the summer heat service: the service is also quite good meal ready to remind pick up the meal Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: This shop is not open all day, why should it be labelled as open all day, when it's time, the sales staff will be invited out, and they have to clean up after closing time. And you can't order after 11pm. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I often come here, the environment is good, the service is very good, the set menu is complete, easy to pick up food, recommended to eat often! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: the environment is particularly good table clean and tidy ground is also very clean to come in to eat very pleasant service: service whether it is the attitude or answer are very patient meals are good will remind to take the meal is really super thoughtful to come in to eat really all aspects of the people give a very comfortable feeling! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Xili Baoneng Global Gateway next to the Mai Mai, not in the mall inside, but also quite good to find. The front of the restaurant is not very big, but it is neat and clean, divided into two floors, upstairs there is a children's playground. Favourite or McSpicy Chicken Burger, spicy chicken wings, French Fries eat on-site are very crisp, the clerk ladies are also very friendly. There is also freshly brewed McCafe, which has a great aroma. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The Big Mac burger I ordered, even the meatloaf inside was cold, not to mention the bread loaf outside. It's so easy to make money nowadays, treating customers as fools? Two bites, it's cold and tasteless. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I bought a double layer of Grilled Chicken Sandwich for breakfast today and the meat inside felt undercooked, I spat it out directly after the second bite and the manager didn't reply and didn't deal with the problem at all. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I'm not going to be able to do that! Families we just say that McDonald's in Bonanza City West is recommendable! McDonald's food quality is as good as ever, delicious flavour and very affordable. In addition, the little brother service speed, environmental hygiene is also done very well. Whether it is a fast food or takeaway, it is a good choice. Late night snacks are highly recommended! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: As a fan of McDonald's to speak, the overall is still very good, and McDonald's launched a lot of different packages, the overall price is very cheap. Environment: relatively speaking, the seat is a little less, midday meal in the shop more people, often not much position to sit, feel that this point can be upgraded after all, the kind of ordering machine are abandoned! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Service:Warm and hospitable Environment:Clean and tidy "Double-layered Deep-sea Cod Burger" "Mackerel" "Bacon and Egg Cocktail" "Chicken Congee with Crispy Bamboo Shoots and Snow Vegetables" Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The nearest McDonald's to school, every time I ride my bike over to eat, new fat juice with a cone love love love it! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Service: mass on the ice cream can actually be cheaper a dollar yeah, to the shop directly exchange immediately take very quickly, but the little brother said dessert station has a second half-price a person to eat can also save a next time to take, good humane. I heard the little brother say that you can also buy any card to place an order will be more cost-effective. "McSpicy Chicken Burger" is too long I have not eaten this packaging is a little good-looking, spicy spicy "zero degree Coca-Cola" happy water YYDS environment: is on the road, very convenient and easy to find, the first floor of the many locations of the glass landing can also directly see the opposite side of the environment is not bad la! I do not know if it is not the reason for the weekend people are not particularly much this point of the meal point there is a position to sit down meals also very quickly on the very milk Si ah! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Ambience:Very cosy, this restaurant has two floors and a nice view downstairs. Very suitable for afternoon tea here. The new chocolate milk cone is also good, very recommended to eat. Service: quite enthusiastic, basically can meet the requirements. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Ate here many times, often come to stroll Baoneng Global Gateway to come in to eat something, the shop is not very large, over to eat basically come to this shopping mall, eat people have been quite a lot. The environment is also good, the service is not good when there are too many people busy, other are good. Ordered the meal on the also quite fast, this time only ordered a cone, did not take pictures. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McSpicy Chicken Burger: chicken texture can be, burger embryo texture is general, not very spicy, forget to take the chili noodlesFrench Fries: French Fries just started to eat the first bite a little salty, but the crispiness and moistness OK Overall service can be, the food is also very fast, because it is the lunchtime to go to the environment and health OK, not very crowded. The environment is OK, hygiene is OK, not too crowded, there is a seat Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: It is just downstairs, so it is especially convenient, often group purchase breakfast "Crispy Fragrant Doughnuts", "Superior Soy Milk", the classic way to eat Soy Milk soaked doughnuts, very cost-effective, "cone ice cream" recognise their family, always feel better than the other family's delicious. Environment: The shop is located on the street, sometimes I like to look at the traffic on the road near the glass window and let myself go! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: this shop is opposite the Fulong New Village, very convenient, often over to eat, decoration environment is also good, the first floor feels very good, the table has animation projection, children like very much Service: the staff service is very enthusiastic and thoughtful, ordering is also very careful, the overall feeling of a very good product: the most like his French Fries McLeod wings, as well as his newest hamburger is very tasty! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Close to home and often take the kids for breakfast. Especially like the cone ice cream, which is delicious as always. There is also a children's play area on the first floor, so you can watch the kids while you drink your afternoon. McCafe's post-coconut latte, silky smooth aftertaste! The service is also good, kudos! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's favourite is the dessert, and Spicy McWings is my favourite, and the first choice for fried chicken! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Now every morning breakfast is solved here, the food is quite fast, the 1st floor seats less, but the 2nd floor will have a lot of seats, need to eat in the shop I will go to the 2nd floor. And the first floor seems to have a table to play games (PS: comes with the game, is achieved by the projection of the zenith to the desktop), should children will like. The environment is still very good, overall clean and hygienic Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I haven't had McDonald's "Cone Ice Cream" for a long time, and this time, I felt it was quite average, and the creamy part of the ice cream tasted so bad. Probably won't try this product again. The other products are still ok and the service is good and enthusiastic. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Juicy burger, really really good, only downside is that it's slightly expensive! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Convenient location, just downstairs from home, kids love it! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Ambience:Very well located, crossroads, weekday mornings witness all kinds of traffic jams. But on weekends, sitting in the first floor window eating breakfast, don't have a leisurely. There are also junior high school students with their homework, white-collar workers with their computers, and college students carrying a stack of books, working and studying here. Service:People often leave rubbish on the table after eating on the first floor, and the waiters are very prompt to tidy it up. The McDonald's breakfast line is highly recommended. Especially when I swapped my coffee for Soy Milk and found a new source of happiness. McDonald's Breakfast is the start of a meta-energy. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: There is a McDonald's near home is really very convenient if the breakfast card and lunch card can be combined is really good breakfast is really very convenient and cheap no nothing to say can not think of what to eat this is a must choose can not introduce a new combination card! McDonald's just a problem delivery, delivery fee is really quite expensive! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Breakfast Grilled Chicken Sandwich Chicken Leg Burger is a mini version of the surrounding 3 McDonald's only a 24-hour non-closing must be bought before seven o'clock breakfast ah rush to work that day I want to be sure to eat a McDonald's breakfast he said that the breakup was very difficult Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I mainly want to talk about my few take-out dining experiences. All orders were placed on the app, and I found that every time I ordered take-out food, such as fried chicken wings and McNuggets, they were over-fried and hard. I don't know if it's because it's over-fried, it just doesn't feel very fresh. Twice I even asked them to change it. Gotta be more careful. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: A long time a long time have not eaten McDonald's, have forgotten what taste, only remember that when I was a child do not want to eat McDonald's, like KFC, the morning did not eat breakfast, with my husband went to eat McDonald's, I feel that the taste of the great, the domestic McDonald's and KFC are too much better than the U.S., I feel that all of these things to the country have been improved into the Chinese flavour, so good ~ Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Each McDonald's tastes not too different from the other, and now that the outbreaks are made-to-order, you need to wait a few minutes to pick up your food. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: On the day of June 1, I bought the Happy Planet package oh ~ emm, the taste is very peculiar, it is better to order the regular good service: the ladies service is great, very patient, praise. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Impression every time you go to McDonald's, are people bursting, there is no location, this shop location more, and the service is also good, group purchase a burger package, McDonald's Grilled Chicken Sandwich Chicken Thighs Fort I'm the most recommended, haha, or as always, delicious, the next time to try the new products! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Uniform style, it's worth mentioning that his ice-cream is better hahahaha Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Went to eat a few times, not far from home, the shop is not big, up and down two floors, mainly takeaway it, the shop dining is not much, the first floor is pure dining, on the meal is quite fast, the service is also quite good, ketchup, pickled plum sauce every time you take two or three packets can be many times to take, tube enough. Haha. The fried chicken is as good as ever. Packed, dine-in can be. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: New coffee, oatmeal thick coconut latte, less sugar taste is good, next time try sugar-free service: for people like me who want to drink afraid of sweetness, patience to explain and blend. Environment: clean, neat Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Have eaten here several times, closer to the place of residence, whether it is a takeaway or door to door dine-in is relatively fast, the location in the Baoneng City behind the China Merchants Bank, opposite Chongwen Garden, the shop is quite large, there are two layers, a layer of ordering two layers of the dine-in, eat here is quite a lot of people, the service is quite good, the environment is also good, ordering on the meal very quickly. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The location is behind China Merchants Bank in Bao Neng City, and next to it is KFC. Opposite is Chongwen Garden pagoda, this shop is not very big, but is the upper and lower two floors, the location is a little off, but the flow of people can be, come here to eat quite a lot of people, the shop service staff is not much, but the service is quite good, the environment is also good, ordering on the meal very quickly, McDonald's meal as always good. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Bu "Spicy McWings" "Cylinder Ice Cream" "Spicy Legs French Fries Set Meal" Today, I made an appointment with my friends to eat McDonald's, the location is very good and convenient, the spicy wings are very fragrant, or the taste of the past, the pie is also very good service is very spot on. The brand sister every time to come is very warm, polite, eat McDonald's will choose this Western District McDonald's, fast food service good! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I've been wanting to eat M Kee's Cod Fish Burger for a long time, and it just so happens that today I'm coming over to Jinqi. Zhigu to check out the project and there is a McDonald's right downstairs! The shop is divided into two floors, most of the seats are on the first floor! The staffs are enthusiastic and considerate, and their attitude is very good. The "Double Decker Deep Sea Cod Burger" has a delicious cod fish flavour without being fishy, and the double decker fish meat is a great satisfaction! "Double-decker custard burger" is a 1 + 1 package to come with strawberry Xindi only 12.9 yuan, economic value for money ......French Fries, taro pie must be eaten while hot, fried fire just right, gaga fragrance! Shop Address: No. 119, G/F, Block 3, Bao Neng City Garden West, Tonglang Community (600m walk from Exit D of Tonglang MRT Station) Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: It's great that a McDonald's has opened up next to the house and Kat doesn't have to make breakfast at home! Eat M family breakfast N years, as always, like, eat not tired of children also like to eat! Environment: the environment is quite good, do upstairs can also look at the scenery, is the air conditioning a little too cool service: lobby service is good, out of the meal is also very fast! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Often go to buy breakfast, in the roadside, it is very convenient, the car parked good to go in to get. But a friendly reminder, when you take it, you must double-check that there is no shortage of things, breakfast ten times inside the five leaks hash brown, if so taken away can not say. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Bao Neng City West McDonald's, the first floor has a lot of location is very quiet, the waiter little brother are very patient, speak very gently. Suitable for an ice cream break. Children especially like to come here to eat ice cream. You can even get a free pink ice cream when you bring your kids here. The Ovaltine series has a second half-price event. Also saw an advert for a company group buy package. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The first ice cream of spring, McDonald's Ovaltine cone, is a great value and super tasty! Buy buy buy, buy it! With children can also send mini ice cream oh, who is not a baby le. Service: the clerk service attitude is particularly great, very enthusiastic, and good-looking little brother and sister oh. Environment: quite good Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Bao Neng City on the opening of two McDonald's and two KFC this is closer and smaller, just as the ice-cream cones do activities, 7.5 yuan for two, this weather is not the best time to eat cold drinks, but! Still so cool! The next day to buy breakfast, McDonald's breakfast package is still more cost-effective than the KFC, the small American + Chicken Legs Fort as long as 9 yuan! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The new McDonald's is closer and more convenient, and the new ice-cream tastes great! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Coupons have to be used in the morning and are wasted. You can use a membership coupon, which is still a good deal. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Very standard McDonald's, but bought a newbie voucher on VW and got a really good deal on a cone for $1, can't beat that! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I didn't expect three McDonald's to open in a kilometre's distance, this time directly on my doorstep, I'm so happy! Recently McDonald's has returned with the Crispy Chocolate Cone, so I rushed to try it out, but to be honest it wasn't as good as DQ made it look, but it still tasted great, a bit of nostalgia, after all, it's been around for years! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: In the core area it's only a 5 minute walk from the metro station, and the food is prepared very fast even though it's very crowded with customers. The service is superb, the environment is clean and geographically convenient, the delivery is very fast, highly recommend this McDonald's, verydeliciousandconvenient! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Get the new McDonald's ice-cream "Yoghurt Grape Oat McFLURRY"! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I love to eat McDonald's ah, home downstairs and opened a new McDonald's, clean and hygienic, the most like to eat not veggies and Angus double cheeseburger, and the baby a person one, delicious and inexpensive, and the attitude of the service staff thieves, their shop manager is also very handsome, pink sister is also very beautiful, and the food is also very good! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: If a family passes by on weekends and holidays, they'll want to get a cone, and there are always great deals to be had! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Hungry run this way to nibble a burger, and then buy a coupon, McSpicy Chicken Burger feel not so taste, feel and memory is not the same, feel a part of the roasted a little bit burnt, and there is no spicy flavour, it can not highlight the name of McSpicy Chicken Burger, but the New Year's Day service is very good for the perseverance of the first line of the service staff! Kudos. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Every time I don't have an appetite, I want to go to eat this McDonald's, this McDonald's 1+1, and say a set meal or something, really is always God, the food is very delicious, and the cost-effective is also very high, and it is cheaper than ordering a take-away, it is just slightly far away from me, if it is close, I will eat this every day, and then this pie of theirs then I think it's very tasty, that is, the outer skin is baked The crust is baked and crispy, and then the filling is hot, so it's great. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Because it is a new shop so the food is relatively slow, waiting for a long time, but the attitude of the waiter is still quite good. After-sales service is also good like McSpicy Chicken Burger crispy chicken is also very tasty now basically do not go to kfc la has been eating McDonald's McDonald's activities are also more affordable environment: there is a first floor location is also quite a lot of Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Went on the first day of opening and the French Fries were soft, as were the chicken nuggets. Then there was no sauce in the bag if you didn't ask for it. Around 9pm, I asked for a cone and was told there was none left. Ten minutes later another person came in for a cone and she had it. There was a target on my back. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's anyway, all a taste are almost the same attention to this shop quite a long time because it is downstairs is also convenient to renovate for quite a long time and finally opened the environment: the environment is still good clean service: the service is a bit general other shops are little brother and sister of this shop how are older women not that look at the women is not good just that it is not the same as other stores are a bit strange slower production obviously feel that both the manager Both the manager and the staff are a bit inexperienced more general checking a coupon still need to call for half a day that's it McDonald's is pretty much the same thing Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Whether it's the classic burger, French Fries, milkshakes or breakfast sets, each one offers a delightful taste experience. McDonald's Big Macs and McNuggets, in particular, are popular with consumers of all ages, offering a wide range of textures and unique flavours. The environment is clean and comfortable, suitable for family dinners and small gatherings with friends. By constantly introducing seasonal products and limited edition menus, McDonald's always keeps things fresh and new with each visit. The waiters are always warm and welcoming. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: What a disappointing experience yesterday. I was so excited to buy my favourite ice cream, only to be told that the ice cream machine was broken, and this sudden news was definitely a big blow to the expectation. What is even more difficult to understand is that since the machine is already broken, why still let the customer order, rather than directly off the shelves to deal with? This kind of operation can't help but make people question the shop's professionalism and management efficiency. Moreover, when I made a refund request, I was also told that I had to wait, which undoubtedly added to my inconvenience and dissatisfaction. In the modern fast-paced life, time is everything, and this kind of unnecessary waiting is obviously disrespectful to customers' time. I hope the shop will learn a lesson from this incident and improve its service process to ensure that similar situations do not happen again, so as not to damage the interests of customers and the shop's own reputation. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Great ambience, great attitude, great location French Fries is cooked just right and the burger is pretty good too! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The weather is too hot, in McDonald's to enjoy the cold air, sit down to rest and eat, kill the summer time, the shop's first floor environment is comfortable, dining, pass the time, a good place to escape the summer ah! The service is also very good! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: It's as good as ever. My daughter always comes back for a burger after she jumps rope. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Afternoon tea good place who's childhood did not have m record it recommended ~ Bao Neng City West District shop Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: "Double-layered Deep-sea Cod Burger" is very tasty, we recommend you to order this one! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: comfortable Service: warm and thoughtful Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Come often, it's delicious and the staff is very nice! The French Fries here are especially good! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The environment is hygienic, the food is very good, and the service staff are very nice. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Breakfast was a great deal, great service McCafe was good! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: environment good service bar Miss beautiful Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: A regular shop the staff are very welcoming the food is fresh! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Nice ambience, good food good good good, great service Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Good review, love the attitude of McDonald's and the fried chicken is now delicious! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Yellow environment: clean and hygienic service: the attitude is very good my requirements can be met with a smile service eat very happy Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The service here is superb, the little Zeng beauty smiles sweetly and eats with a great mood, will come back again! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Come here every day for breakfast!!! hash brownyyds!!! next to the Big Sandy River Greenway, come after every ride for Grilled Chicken Sandwich Chicken Leg Burger hahaha a must for fitness people! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Restaurant environment is very good like children play very happy eat very happy service attitude is very good next time to bring them to play! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I often come to this McDonald's, the service is very good, the food comes out quickly, and the shop is conveniently located just down the road. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Come and eat at M-Kee's on Monday, the McDonald's at your doorstep! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Yummy, better than KFC, love it, especially the spicy wings are delicious! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment:Good environment, fast, kudos! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Almost always here to solve the lunch, the shop lady service attitude is particularly good, and the environment is clean and tidy, the food is also very delicious, will come back more, recommended! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's McFLURRY was delicious as always! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The environment is very good, the location is also very good, just at the junction, French Fries burger is delicious as always, the overall service attitude is also very good, hygiene is very clean, recommend everyone to come! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Whether it's the flavour or the environment, this restaurant is impeccable. Definitely the ideal place to share a meal with family and friends, the quantity is very sufficient, the set menu is completely incomplete for one person, as always, delicious, colourful and flavourful, next time to try other unheard of! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: This shop regular customers, often eat as always delicious equal to my second canteen to eat peace of mind assured that the shop has a complete range of dishes, the taste of the super-positive service is very good and highly recommended! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Come here often and it tastes good! Good service and very nice environment. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's meal was quickEnvironment: the environment is also very good just down the roadService: the service is very good Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: It's great. It's a nice place. I like it. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Great environment, nice staff, Grilled Chicken Sandwich chicken leg burger yyds Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The environment is very good, the location is very easy to find, the service is also very attentive, recommend everyone to come over! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: It's usually quite crowded, you can take a break here if you go to Bao Neng City. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: This sells Donuts close to home and the service is good. Every time I go with my kids, the meals are fresh and hot! There is also a play area on the first floor, walk the baby also place! We recommend you to try the bamboo shoots rolls, Sichuan's favourite! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment:The environment is good, just off the road Service:The service is also quite good, the food is served very quickly Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Out fast service good service: good environment: good Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: very good, there is a lot of seating on the first floor there is also a game area, service: also very good, the waiter is very enthusiastic. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I really enjoy patronising McDonald's because of the excellent taste of their burgers and the golden crispiness of their French Fries. Whether it's for dine-in or take-out, the servers are always friendly, welcoming and very efficient. Every time I visit McDonald's, I enjoy a good meal and a pleasant dining experience and I highly recommend it! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: It's in the western part of Bao Neng City, opposite the Chong Wen Garden pagoda, two floors up and down, and is frequented frequently. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: As a customer, I was very pleased with my dining experience at McDonald's! The food was delicious, the service was excellent, and the staff was friendly and welcoming. The restaurant was clean and cosy and I felt right at home. I especially enjoyed their Classic Burger and Crispy French Fries.Highly recommend McDonald's and I will be back! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Whenever I go for a walk along the Dasha River Greenway, I always stop at McDonald's in the west end of Bao Neng City in Tanglang and order a drink, and it's a great place to go on a summer's day with plenty of cool air. The problem is that when you are drinking, you want something to eat, and when you are done eating, you want a McFLURRY or something else. Eat, eat, drink, drink, calories consumed and double to make up for it! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Attitude and service were great, especially when ordering, very patient and quick to serve. The environment is very clean, next time come back. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: the seating is not particularly large, but the staff always clears the tables in a timely manner Service: the service is exceptionally good, the food is served exceptionally fast, and the staff responds to customer requests in a timely manner! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Late night eatery, great produce, order freshly fried French Fries and McNuggets every time, very tasty and great service. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Family members who understand ah, always love Angus series, bought a membership is even more cost-effective, $ 30 enjoy can be subjected to four sets, poor people's happiness is this. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The first time to this side of the McDonald's, the environment is very good, the weekend morning people are not particularly many, out of the meal very quickly, the attitude of the clerk is also very good, and now there is a public comment card to send snacks activities! It's great! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The serving speed is fast and the environment hygiene is good. The dishes are all uniform, good service attitude, and many special offers. Add the shop manager WeChat can also have a discount. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: One in the morning. Luckily it's not closed so we can eat. Great. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: 1+1 tastes great, it's great, I order this every time. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I can't help but disavow my beloved Big Mac! It's just delicious and what's wrong with it? For those of you who want to control your calories, you can enjoy the no-sauce, no-cheese version or mix and match according to the calories. The double-decker beef patty is a solid, high-quality protein that can be eaten whenever you want! No! No! No! No! Yes! Pressure! Pressure! Oooooooh, I'm really crying because other people may make you fat, but McMuffin makes you healthy and delicious. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Often take your child to this shop, your child's favourite is ice cream, soft and cold, in this hot day is the children's favourite, there are also crispy French Fries, and hamburgers, Spicy McWings, freshly made, good taste, eat still want to eat, can not forget, very good. Summer Snow Ice, cold and fruity drinks, recommended. The service of the shopkeeper is very good. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Breakfast canteen near Chongwen is convenient. The coffee is very good. Son likes their doughnut Soy Milk. recommended. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Great service, close to school, have been here many times! McMenamins! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Nice environment clean and tidy service very good service on time good food clean and hygienic premium very good very good delivery on time fast shop is clean Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's downstairs McDonald's is my favourite, daily card just fried out of the French Fries crunchy, with a cone Meizitang Big Mac daily must choose, even if you lose weight and do not have to be afraid of meat pie and thick and juicy! A bite down biu burst juice!!!! The quality meat is really fragrant and juicy ~ with cheese and refreshing pickles! It's so rich and creamy in one bite! It's so satisfying! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Clean, hygienic, tasty and less expensive than canteens! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The environment is great, clean and tidy! There is also a place for kids to play on the first floor and the food comes out super fast! Love this shop! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Service: the staff is very conscientious and responsible, also very enthusiastic. Environment: clean and hygienic recommended Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's near the company's service is really good ah, the product is very fast quality is also very high. McDonald's believers favourite pastime base, 1 + 1 set meal is really good for afternoon tea ah, love love love! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Fast food, good Angus, and with a French Fries Coke, lunch is just right! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I passed by a McDonald's today. It's a nice place to come. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The event was great, the food was delicious eaten and want to eat again Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I often come here to eat near my home, the stuff is freshly made, the fried chicken is crispy on the outside and tender on the inside, and the service is very good too! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's has always been my favourite, since I was a kid, the burgers are succulent and juicy, and the Pepsi has been a constant drinker, and a meal after working overtime is very satisfying! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The environment is quite good, occasionally I don't know what to eat so I come to McDonald's, the flavour is always on line, and the food comes out quickly. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The service was great, the food came out fast, the ambience was great with a view of the crossroads, Grilled Chicken Sandwich Chicken Thigh Burger really loved it! Five stars~ Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The environment is good, the location is very good, the weekend is very crowded, and the service is very good. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Great burgers as always.French Friesyyds! Great service! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The shop has two floors, very clean, fewer people, conveniently located near SZU and SUSTech, good reviews! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: the environment is good son! Tables and floors are clean and tidy service: the staff service is positive, the meal is ready will promptly remind to get. Passed by and bought a McFLURRY to eat! Happy summer family members who understand! Coffee stall is also neat and tidy with aromas of coffee etc wafting in! Coco Coco. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Looking around or eat McDonald's is the best choice to eat dinner today in the search for a place to find the results of passing through the western district of Bao Neng City found a two-storey McDonald's found not bad environment: very can be two-storey design can be in the first floor to sit and look at the scenery outside the dining service: the service is also good meal is also very classic or so delicious can be recommended to taste a little! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: It's close to Booneng City, not too crowded, and the food comes out pretty fast! Anyone who doesn't come to McDonald's will break my heart ok?French Fries are delicious! The burgers are good! Coke is good too! McDonald's! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The dining environment is very good and the food is delicious, the service is very good! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: 5.23 is not a special day but it's the day I came back to eat McDonald's again!!!! McDonald's freshly fried French Fries without ketchup and with extra coarse salt are the best and this Gouda wrapped burger is great too! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's is really too good never get tired of eating student party favourite. Good value for money. I really love French Fries too much not veggie bully burger yyds!!!! Yummy! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: West End this McDonald's has two floors, the clerk out of the meal very quickly, the service attitude is very good, there are problems raised can be resolved in a timely manner, burgers and French Fries is also very tasty, every time to give the amount of French Fries are very large, overflowing are, hahaha have the feeling of taking advantage of the situation! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The amount is very sufficient, the single package for one person is just right, the amount is very sufficient, as always, delicious, and the same taste as in childhood, colour and flavour, the next time to try other burgers that have not been eaten, the attitude of the waiter is also very good and enthusiastic! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: A Mai Mai especially close to the school, most of the staff are young people service attitude is very good, the quality of the product is also good, French Fries are very crispy, can eat McDonald's is my lucky... Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: A cup of coffee a day with custard and egg McMuffin for a full breakfast. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Shuangji yyds!, shop in Bao Neng City West next to the village of Hong Li, the first floor has a lot of space, and children's playground staff attitude is also very good, what problems can be solved in a timely manner next time to come! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's in Bao Neng City shopping mall side, the location is also very good to find, the restaurant two floors, clean and tidy. The waitresses are very nice and fast. The cones and burgers are delicious. The coffee is also very good. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: the restaurant environment is very good, very clean, there will be no floor slippery situation, eating environment is very nice Service: the service is very good and polite and treat people very friendly problems will try to solve the ice-cream is still as good as ever and very affordable than other shops are cheaper! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: "Cone Ice Cream" McDonald's ice cream is the most classic ah, every time you want to eat ice cream will come over to eat, the shop's quality control is quite good, that is, no matter whether it is a cone or French Fries or whatever, every time over to eat are hot, I like the service: the staff of the service here is also quite enthusiastic, basically all have a need to respond to my needs very quickly environment: the environment here is also quite good. The environment is also quite good, there is a first floor on the first floor, here is quite comfortable, the air conditioning is also open very full Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's is my regular shop, West End is very close to the school and I often come with my friends and classmates. The environment is beautiful, the noise is low, the food is delicious and the quantity is sufficient, I will come back often. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Yummy yummy yummy mammon forever!!! Here on the first floor table there are still children can play games really do not poke! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The service from the young lady was very warm. Meals were served very quickly. Bought ice-cream Grilled Chicken Sandwich Chicken Thigh Castle French Fries tasted great. Freshly baked French Fries especially delicious. Hygiene environment is very good next time to come back to highly recommend everyone! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Is there anyone like me, KFC and McDonald's like McDonald's more, especially French Fries, love love love. After lunch, a cone, the public review is cheaper than the shop 1 yuan, the service is also very good Oh! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Order a cone and burger set taste very beautiful, French Fries freshly baked great, food is also very fast, the environment can be, clean and hygienic and affordable, the shop staff is very enthusiastic, good good! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The experience of the shop is very good. Hygiene those are very clean, the waiter is also very enthusiastic, bought a cone and Big Mac burger set meal taste very delicious French Fries is just fried out of the thief cool. The food is also very fast ~ great! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Often come to this shop to eat, this shop is closer to the school, the environment is also very good. The food is very fast, the staff of the shop is also very enthusiastic, good service, ordering can soon get the meal, French Fries are basically fried, burgers are also very good, very recommended KaZi crispy chicken thighs burger. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The taste of this burger is absolutely first-class, as the saying goes, the wine is not afraid of the deep alley, eat this time, but also want to eat again. So delicious and affordable hamburger recommended that we all come to try, eaten is a word "value"! We recommend that you also try, soft meat, taste first-class, there is a kind of history and civilisation of the rhythm in it. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Clean and fast~Ice cream is so good, I love French Fries from mKeeper's. Service: Great service~! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment:This environment is fried chicken nice, there are a lot of seats on the first floor Service:The waiters are very enthusiastic, take the initiative to help, communicate in a gentle tone! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Affordable price, a lot of activities, often have coupons, every week to eat! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The cones and the 3-piece set were good, and the McSpicy Chicken Burger was so tasty, kudos! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: Located within 5 minutes walk from the south gate of SZU, it's very convenient to eat over the shop environment is very good seats enough service: service attitude is very good shop preferential activities Miss will take the initiative to tell us very good "Cone Ice Cream" every time we come can not help but eat a "Grilled Chicken Sandwich Chicken Legs Castle" Grilled Chicken Sandwichyyds "French Fries" McDonald's freshly fried French Fries are the best! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: the environment is clean and comfortable, there are two floors, the 2nd floor to choose the window can see the street outside, there is a seat in the middle of the screen can be given to the children to play games. Service: the waiter is very enthusiastic, thoughtful and careful service dishes: McDonald's French Fries give full marks, McLeod chicken nuggets and Spicy McWings strong push, burgers are very tasty, this time to try the Cod Fishburger flavour is also very good, the pineapple pie is also very tasty! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The environment is clean, comfortable, and the food is delicious, making it a favourite place for both men and women to stop by once in a while to get in the mood for a meal. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Taste of food: burgers are super tasty, especially the cod burger, bought many times, recommended environment: clean, very good. Service: very enthusiastic. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Recommended by a friend and came to try it today. The restaurant has a great environment, the staff service is superb, the set meal ordered was ample, the French Fries were freshly baked and very tasty, and the burgers were very tasty, so all in all, it's worth recommending! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Location is very good to find, far from seeing the signboard, the restaurant service attitude is very good, there is help to assist in ordering food, the environment is clean and tidy, next to the finished immediately someone to clean, the product is also very nice, clicks crispy as always delicious, recommended recommended! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's tastes as good as ever, the shop service is very good, will give you patience to order, will also meet a variety of taste requirements, the restaurant environment is very good, clean and comfortable, freshly fried French Fries is very crispy and delicious! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's cones yyds, super flavourful! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The most surprising thing about this shop was actually the service, it really is customer orientated! The environment is also very good! Just come with confidence, the experience is first class, all in all, I highly recommend you all to hit it up! McDonald's was delicious as always! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: French Fries is better than other shops and has enough flavour! The ice-cream was also big and nice, the set menu was tasty and the coke was cold enough. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: clean Service: good Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's from small to large, now home next to the opening of a simply not too convenient, every day must play card! Environment: the environment is not bad, the service attitude is also quite good. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The environment is good, the shop is on the roadside is more convenient, the service is good, the food is also fast "Grilled Chicken Sandwich Chicken Leg Burger" I like to eat their Grilled Chicken Sandwich Chicken Leg Burger. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: As a loyal fan, has been very much like to eat McDonald's breakfast McCafe series! Environment: the environment as a whole is good, is the location of the ground floor a little less, if you want to dine on the first floor! Service: service is basically the same in every shop, now are mobile phone orders, meals are quite fast, the lobby has staff to clean up in a timely manner! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: the environment is good, quite clean, very neat service: the service attitude can be, very fast, very powerful "cone ice cream" Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment:The environment is okay, very comfortable. The hygiene is also good, relatively clean. Service: The waitresses are very enthusiastic and will prepare the meal "cone ice cream" as soon as possible. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I prefer the original for personal reasons, but the chocolate flavour is great too! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Nice environment and warm service. The burgers French Fries are all very tasty and you can sit on the first floor and work. Very comfortable. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Tonight suddenly have a little miss the taste of McDonald's, looking for a little bit of positioning to come to this to my eyes bright M record, and the service attitude is very good, the first floor space is very spacious, but also very quiet, suitable for a person to dawdle, the waiter little brother and sister is also very handsome very beautiful, out of the meal is also a thief fast! Coke gas is very sufficient, Cheese Angus is very fragrant not greasy at all, apple sorbet praise! Recommended. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The location is striking, the ambience is great and the service is excellent. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Service attitude is very good forget to note to ice also helped me get the first floor environment is very big taste is very good Grilled Chicken Sandwich Chicken Thigh Castle is in my mind the most delicious sometimes every Monday's Membership Day will give a lot of benefits can also group purchase a lot of cost-effective volume often go to eat very much like McDonald's price is not too expensive taste is very good McDonald's there are a lot of beautiful young lady and handsome little brother Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Environment: super close to the company, just downstairs in Chongwen Park, also open during the epidemic, very convenient service: shop staff are quite good, very patient, need to wait for will also say first. "Cylinder ice cream" hot weather in the afternoon to eat an ice cream, the public review there are discounts, exchange is also very convenient, rounding up is a person also the second half-price, cost-effective! The new rolls are also quite tasty, with the random matching is also a good deal. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: A few days ago the morning came to the side of the Baoan Hall to do some things, and then in the Bao Neng Global Gateway this big shopping mall inside the negative floor to see a McDonald's, just did not eat breakfast, so go to McDonald's inside a set meal, set meal inside a latte coffee, there is a hash brown, there is also a hamburger, the overall set meal is still relatively sumptuous, but also be able to fill up your stomach, breakfast and coffee, then! The breakfast and the coffee are very useful for the enhancement. Very big role, overall this package of a cost-effective or relatively high, and then the taste is also very good, the shop is now due to the epidemic can not be full, can only be separated from the table to do so, the shop a dine-in rate control at about 50%. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's opened in Bao Neng City West, the recent concessions, buy one get one of the McMac Crispy Juice Chicken is really good reviews, fried French Fries is also very fluffy, bought a member of the 25 yuan to the shop package, Angus beef burger is also very juicy and tasty, the best choice for lunch, no longer need to run to Tonglang City to eat McDonald's la, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy, happy. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I can West End McDonald's restaurant is clean and hygienic, McNuggets are considered an old McDonald's item, the crispy boneless chicken will make people love it, especially my kids, every McDonald's shop must order McNuggets, savoury chicken pieces with sweet and sour sauce, full of flavour, I am very relieved to bring my kids to McDonald's, the food is delicious and the French Fries are freshly fried and crispy, this time! experience was comfortably happy and the service was great. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Near the metro station is very convenient, the family's children also like to eat, the shop is clean and tidy service attitude is also very good, easy to order, the ground and the table are very clean shop decoration is very beautiful pick up the food especially fast, the shop waiter service is especially in place, the children are very much like, the shop layout of the neat and generous, the seating arrangement is also very good, the whole is very good! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The food was tasty and the French Fries freshly fried was well received!!!! Seats are neatly arranged! Air quality is good! The service was great, there was music all around, there was plenty of space and it didn't give a crowded feeling when there were many people! There's also a delivery of ketchup and sweet chilli sauce, and the quickness of the staff in getting the food out, overall I was very impressed and there was nothing bad about it! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The new shop has just opened, the shop environment is very good, the service attitude is very good, the dining speed are very fast, the food is very fresh, the desktop is also hygienic and concise, the guests leave the table waiting to clean up the speed of the table is very fast! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Here the environment is good, the waiter's attitude is very good, out of the meal is also very fast noon off work is also very convenient right next to the Monday activities Grilled Chicken Sandwich8 yuan 8 very cost-effective, feel the value, recommended to eat. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: A bunch of old men and women, slow food, messy, the worst McDonald's I've ever encountered, dine-in to all packages Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Bought a package clearly written on the Coke, the actual shop on no option not to give, can not afford to engage in activities also do not cheat ah Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's is my favourite, every time I pass by, I will come in and eat at this shop, my favourite is the Chicken Thigh Castle, the chicken is very crispy and spicy, the French Fries are also freshly baked, very crispy, with a strong potato flavour, it's really very tasty, I love it, I love it. The Coke was so refreshing and refreshing, I loved it so much. Lobby lady service attitude is very good, help me to take the initiative to deliver food to the table, cheers! Cheer up! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The environment is very good, the flavour is delicious, the dishes are exquisite lobby lady is very enthusiastic, into the door feel very good French Fries amount is very much, point a set meal a person simply can not finish, truly affordable shop dining speed is also very fast, super good service attitude, the lady to send me to the table. It's very good, I love it, and I'm going to come to Mai Mai with my family. Bao Neng shop cheer cheer! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: M Kee's is really good. But the service of the staff is very poor, something good has been put inside, let people wait until it is cold and then take it out no big words! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The French Fries were soft and tasteless, and there were two strips that felt like they were undercooked and didn't break at the first bite. The previous cone was also small and twisted. This is the worst McDonald's I've ever encountered. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Not a lot of people and the food was slow as hell to come out! It's very slow! The worst experience I've ever had at McDonald's. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The chicken wings were super salty, the French Fries were not crispy even after sitting for a long time, and only the cola was slightly better! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Great service, great value for money, too good to pass up! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: It's still a great deal, and the food is very filling, with consistent quality Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The restaurant environment is better, as always, the flavours are great and the service is excellent ...... Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The lady at the reception at noon is particularly good, and the set meal is delicious "# Set Meal: [Fresh Taste of Freshness] 1+1 Value Set Meal at your own pace" is good and good, and I'll come back next time! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: I'm a loyal McMenu devotee and McMenu's flavours are good, it's just that a lot of the burgers are getting smaller and smaller, and the presentation isn't as good as it used to be. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: It's just a few minutes past breakfast, so it's a good thing you can still use the voucher. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: "#Package: [Ice Sweet Summer] Taro / Pineapple Pie buy 1 get 1 free, enjoy with McNuggets in shop" Super delicious! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: 5 stars for the taste, 1 star for the service, many times I went to the front desk and no one was there, it takes an average of 10 minutes to order a meal. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's this service is really bad, group purchase still have to scan the code one by one, can not enter a little? My colleague ran a few times. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: McDonald's Burger, well, well; McDonald's French Fries, stripes. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: It's not good, the frying is dry, McDonald's chicken nuggets have never been good Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: "#Package: Chicken McNuggets 20-piece set [Limited Dipping Sauce]" It's delicious and inexpensive! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Not as good as last time, not as creamy, easy to spend "# Set Meal: [Dessert] Cone Ice Cream". Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Waiting for half a day to scan the code, no one is at the cashier's desk, and you have to shout for half a day before they come over. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Difficult to eat and the inside is not runny' it feels like flour. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Today, with a few friends, today to McDonald's ordered a casual side, but also ordered a trigger roasted chicken legs, 9.9 yuan, today's membership day, chicken pieces are very fragrant, the waiter is very enthusiastic, into the door will hear today's membership day, Grilled Chicken Sandwich 9.9 yuan, you can get a coupon for the app, the environment is very good, the traffic is convenient, close to the school, "# Set Meal: Cone Ice Cream " is also very good Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The service inside the restaurant is particularly good, the cone is also very delicious, the child super likes the restaurant serving speed is also very fast, the restaurant waiter is also very warm, gave the child hit a small pink mini cylinder. The child is also very happy. The restaurant is quite large, the first floor of the view is particularly good, when you are bored, you can look at the outside scenery. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: This shop location near the school, the traffic is convenient, the service is too much very good, out of the meal very quickly, there is a young lady in the lobby to serve every customer, into the community there are free cute toys had to send, the next time about friends to come to hit the card! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The environment here is good, the Big Mac burger is relatively large, taste good, delicious, in the United States group to buy a Big Mac package plus a gift of French Fries, sitting upstairs, but also directly sent over to the service is particularly thoughtful and enthusiastic. With children to come, and sent a small ice cream. No need to queue to deliver food quickly. Next time again. Good review. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: "#Package: Cylinder Newcomer Gift" "#Spicy McWings" "#Spiced Taro Pie" "#Grilled Chicken Sandwich Chicken Thigh Castle" "#Double Layer Deep Sea Cod Fish Castle" [Taste] Haha, the taste is good, the main thing is that this group is too much value for money [Environment] The environment is needless to say, clean and hygienic [Service] The little brother is very good, and also sent a mini model [Price/Price ratio] This The price is simply too worth it. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: The kids really enjoyed it and I wish there was more activity. Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: Delicious flavours, great service, clean and tidy, great experience! Area: Baoan
Name: McDonald's (Yifang City) Comments: "#Package: Thuringer sausages good morning nutrition roll combo" "#hash brown" "#Chili Legs French Fries Set" "#Spicy McWings" "#McMac Crispy Sauce Chicken" "#McFish" "#Taro Pie" This is a newly opened shop, and again will buy Hercules said, there is no big problem, all aspects are quite good, and the service attitude is very good. And the service attitude is very good, is some all can use also say all quite good dessert station, also hope to be able to early online, this way is better. Area: Baoan
